Liberty Alliance is committed to fighting back against the Woke agenda that is permeating all across Missouri. The first step in fighting back is uncovering their crazy ideas – from Critical Race Theory to grooming toddlers with sexually explicit books. That is why we have officially launched the Woke Heat Map – an interactive tool designed to expose the insane actions of the radical Left. This map will alert Missourians of craziness happening in their own communities.
We know that there are woke efforts happening all across the state, which is why we need YOUR help.
Liberty Alliance is the Conservative answer that Missouri needs, join us to help make Missouri a better place for generations to come. We exist to provide a place for Conservatives and common sense Missourians to protect the values that make Missouri great. Well-funded progressive groups from the coasts are pouring money into the state to help expand Socialism in our healthcare market, raise taxes, and promote the Green New Deal. Some politicians are only fighting half-heartedly to protect our Conservative principles, focusing more on keeping their jobs than protecting our values.
We exist to ensure that Conservative and common sense Missourians have a place to stand together to protect our values.
Our goal is to build a grassroots movement of individuals committed to protecting the ideals and values that Missourians hold dear.
In all ways except physical I am a wolf.
The FitnessGram™ Pacer Test is a multistage aerobic capacity test that progressively gets more difficult as it continues. The 20 meter pacer test will begin in 30 seconds. Line up at the start. The running speed starts slowly, but gets faster each minute after you hear this signal. [beep] A single lap should be completed each time you hear this sound. [ding] Remember to run in a straight line, and run as long as possible. The second time you fail to complete a lap before the sound, your test is over. The test will begin on the word start. On your mark, get ready, start.
Fighting crime is a key issue for every Missourian. We are committed to supporting our men and women in law enforcement while they protect and serve our communities.
The radical Left is trying to brainwash every citizen into thinking that it’s okay to disrespect the police. However, we know police officers are supported and treated much better than what the Liberal Media makes it out to believe. Liberals are associated with fake news for a reason — because they’re out of touch with reality. Countless Americans are grateful for the positive impact law enforcement has on our communities. The Left will never report these stories, but we WILL.
Is there something insane happening in your community? We want to know about it. Help us expose the radical Left by filling out this form!
Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clinton’s failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o’clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don’t blockade, we don’t bomb, we don’t do anything about it. It’s almost as if our country doesn’t even know what’s happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I become president.
To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. It’s going to be a great and reliable ally again. It’s going to be a friend again. We’re going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.
We’re getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water’s edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties — Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War and it’s how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.
First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but it’s also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this, we’re going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.
We should work — thank you.
We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It’s now two-way. And remember, us and all we’re doing, they have to appreciate what we’ve done to them. We’re going to help, but they have to appreciate what we’ve done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea where these people are coming from. There’s no documentation. There’s no paperwork. There’s nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.
You know we weren’t expecting—a couple of months ago, we weren’t expecting to win this one, you know that, right? We weren’t. Of course if you listen to the pundits, we weren’t expected to win too much, and now we’re winning, winning, winning the country. And soon the country’s going to start winning, winning, winning. So I want to thank the volunteers. They’ve been unbelievable. These people, they work like endlessly, endlessly. We’re not going to forget it. And we’ve had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. We love Florida so. We’re going to do very well in Ohio. We’re beating the governor. It’s always nice to be beating the governor. And Michigan—the whole thing. It’s going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. So tonight we had 45 to 46%, and tomorrow you’d hear them say, you know, if they could just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%. So if they could—they keep forgetting that when people drop out, we’re going to get a lot of votes. You know they keep forgetting.
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. He’s getting better than me so I’m a little jealous. And Don went to _____, you were all over, right?
He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.
And Corey and Hope, the staff, the whole group, and Charles and Dan and what a group we have. I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy. Phil said, "Donald,"—like for the last three months he’s driving me crazy, he said—"Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign." I said, "Phil I don’t want your money. I don’t want to do it. I’m self funding." Every time I see him. It’s hard for me to turn down money because that’s what I’ve done in my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy. I want money, money.
I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest.
I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. They’re wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals.
You know, it’s a talent. It’s a talent. You can’t be a politician.
Look, I’m fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though I’m leading in the polls. But they’re very nice people.
But they’re never going to do anything with these countries. They’re never going to be able to do it. It’s an instinct. It’s something that’s special. They don’t have it. Believe me, they don’t have it.
It’s just going to be more of the same.
So, we are going to make our country so great.
We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful.
We’re going to rebuild the military. We’re going to make it so strong.
We are going to take care of our veterans.
And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day.
I just want to say that we’re going to come out with some plans in a very short time.
We’re going to be building up our military. We’re going to make our military so big and so strong and so great.
And it will be so powerful that I don’t think we’re going to ever have to use it. Nobody’s going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
And we’re going to have a President who’s respected by Putin, who’s respected by Iran.
You know, let’s talk about for two seconds, let’s talk about the Iran deal.
Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about the Supreme Leader. Well, I’m not calling him a Supreme Leader.
But he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the United States again. "We’re finished with the United States."
They’re taking $150 billion. They’re getting a deal that’s going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.
They’re going to self-police – think about that one – they are going to go and self-police.
They’ve got the 24-day – they have 24-day provisions. And by the way, what people don’t understand – the 24-day provision doesn’t start – you know this, right? It doesn’t start for a long time before you even get to it. The clock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there.
It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts I’ve ever seen of any kind.
So, we are going to do things and this country right.
So, we’re going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again.
It’s a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again.
Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too many middle income families cannot make ends meet.
This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.
It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans. There will be a major tax reduction.
It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it hasn’t seen for decades.
And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.
But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and we’ve got to make our economy strong.
Changes for individuals will be at levels that you haven’t seen in a long time.
We’re going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.
If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50,000 – so, very important. If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, you’ll not pay any income tax – nothing.
This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair penalty.
It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax.
It ends the death tax. It’s a double taxation. A lot of families go through hell over the death tax.
It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich – in other words, it’s going to cost me a fortune, which is actually true – while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. Very importantly.
It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund folks that I’ve been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money. Carried interest.
So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their own capital.
Changes for business – now, so important, because it’s all about business. It’s all about jobs.
We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they can’t work.
So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Big reduction.
A one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount – 10%. So it comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad.
Now, it’s called corporate inversion. It’s a huge subject.
I’ve been watching politicians now for years – all talk, no action politicians. I’ve been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back.
And they asked a certain general, I’m not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here’s general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said what’s he doing on television? And he’s saying "Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out."
By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said "Take the oil"? Always take the oil! They’re being funded by the oil that I said take.
I don’t want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didn’t do it.
We shouldn’t have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Shouldn’t have been there.
We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it.
But we were there. Then Obama announces because he’s so predictable "We are leaving on a certain date in a year."
Right? I couldn’t believe. I was sitting there thinking "Did he really say that?"
He said "We will have all troops out by a certain date." Right? Did he say that?
I said "No, no, tell me please."
…Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. They think I’ll be the best in the military because they say I – you know, I always say I’ll be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will. But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that.
But you know what I’ll be? I’ll be the great at the military. I’ll be so good. And I’ll know when – and I’ll build our military so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobody’s going to mess around. We’re never going to have to use it. We’re never going to have to use it.
And I’m going to take care of our vets. Believe me, they’re our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. I’m going to take care of our vets.
So go back. So the world is unpredictable.
I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy – oh, I beat him so badly. Aye, it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, it was like a picture. That’s my own problem. I guess. But to me it’s like a painting when you could do something like that.
So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they don’t call this guy. They ended up calling this guy "What do you think about Trump?" And he said but in a respectful way, he said "He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We don’t know what the hell he was going to do." That’s a positive. That’s a positive.
I mean, if you’re a poker player and you’re predictable, you’re not going home with much money. Okay?
But it was really – I said, "That’s not nice what he said." First, I said "That’s not nice. I’m unpredictable." Then I said, "Wait a minute. He meant that as a compliment." And I called him. I said, "What did you mean by that?" He said "I think that’s the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you out. You came at us from 15 different angles."
So with Obama, when he announces that we’re leaving Iraq on a certain date, we shouldn’t have been there but once you announced the bad guys – you know how they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Because the bad guys all moved back. They said, "Hey, what do we have to get killed for?" I mean, these people don’t mind being killed, can you believe it? But they said "If we don’t have to, let’s not." So they moved back.
And they said, "Hey, they’re leaving in -" What was the date? Do you remember the date? Specific date to the day. "We will have all troops out. I’m a great president."
So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, "Oh, you’re leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Let’s go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have to do because if we do well maybe he’ll change his mind and stay. So let’s let him think he has this great victory with the surge." Right? "The surge worked!"
What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, "Let’s wait."
Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. That’s what happened. That was the surge.
Everybody talk so much – "Oh, the surge was so great." The surge was great because everybody knew – they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush.
I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled back and they said, "Let’s get them out." Everybody wanted to leave.
Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or I might not. I won’t even say.
I took a deep breath and I went down and I talked about lots of things, including illegal immigration.
And illegal immigration was such a big subject. And I’m telling you had I not brought it up, it has turned out to be – and I took heat. I took heat like nobody has ever taken heat. Rush Limbaugh said "The most incredible incoming that I’ve ever seen a human being endure". And then he doubled down a week later because I was right.
And now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.
And then you had the killing of Kate [Steinle] and the killing of Jamiel and the killing recently in California of a 66-year-old – think of it, 66-year-old – veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. And many, many more. It’s a huge problem.
And they take our jobs and a lot of other things.
So all of a sudden, everyone’s saying "Wow"…and from almost at the beginning, you’ve seen I’ve been at the top like from almost day one.
…The reason I tell you certain things and the reason I talk about what I’ve done and lots of good things. A little thing – Wollman ice skating rink. The city couldn’t get it built for high years. They were in there for like $20 million. They couldn’t get it done. I went to the mayor of New York, I said, "Ed Koch, I’ll get it done real quick." He didn’t like it because he didn’t want to be shown up. I said I’ll do it and if it costs more than $2 million I’ll pay for it. I got it built for peanuts. Got it done in four months. And we had ice skating in Central Park and I still run it.
I did another one – I did a bigger version of that recently Ferry Point out in the Bronx. They were having – things have been under construction from anywhere between 20 and 30 years. They couldn’t get it done. I got it done under a year. It’s operating now. It’s very successful.
It’s what I do and that’s what we need. That’s what we need in our country.
I’m building on Pennsylvania Avenue an incredible hotel. One of the great hotels of the world. The Old Post Office site. Think of it. I got it in the Obama administration. Everybody was bidding. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA – general services. And I got it. Can you imagine me getting it from the Obama administration? Because the GSA, who are really professionals, they want to make sure number one that it got built. So they wanted strong financials. And they also wanted a great plan. So we came up with Ivanka and my kids we came up with this incredible plan. The job is under budget, ahead of schedule. It was going to open up in ’17 – sometime during the year ’17. Now, it’s going to open probably in September of ’16 right before the election on Pennsylvania Avenue.
And this is the kind of mindset you need.
Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.
We have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. Pfizer’s leaving the United States.
In the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, South Carolina. They’d leave New York or Florida or someplace where the taxes are lower. They’d leave for North Carolina. They’d leave – today they’d leave this country for other countries.
So now, we’re losing Pfizer. We’re losing many of our great companies.
We have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. And everybody agrees it should come home – the Democrats, the Republicans. For three years, they can’t make a deal. They can’t make a deal because there’s such gridlock. There’s no leadership in Washington.
We will make this country so great. We have people and I’ll tell you something. I’ll tell you something…[interrupted by protester] said something to me the other day and what I really want to do – [interrupted by protester] – what we want to do or what I want to do is I want to be the people’s president.
…Think of this, think of this, I don’t work for any of the lobbyists. I don’t work for any of these people that are leading our country in the wrong direction. We don’t.
…The best thing that I’ve seen in going around and the thing that I’ve seen more than anything else is how smart the people are. They don’t believe those people in the back that write with fork. I’m telling you, they don’t believe them. The people are really smart.
What’s giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people that I’ve met – the incredible people of this country.
We’re going to make America great again. And you know what? We’re going to make it greater, greater, than ever before. And I love you all and thank you very much. South Carolina. Great. Thank you! We love you. Thank you!
We’re not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and there’s still there and we don’t even ask for them.
One of them is there because he’s a Christian. We have a writer. We have – the whole thing is absolutely insane.
You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who maybe – you know, I’ve been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Right? All right. I’ve been saying it. But it’s possible – the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. The whole world is like a different place.
It’s possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that he’s going to supersede. And I understand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no chance.
So we’re going to see what happens.
We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration.
Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announced I was running for President.
And for two weeks, I said – you know, Rush Limbaugh – he’s a great guy – he said "He has suffered more incoming" – meaning the press – "than anybody I’ve seen."
So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and I am so happy that I’m the one that brought it to the fore because believe me, it’s a big problem. It is a big problem.
So you remember for about two weeks, I said, "Boy this is tougher than I thought running for President." And then you found out there’s tremendous crime. There’s tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to Chicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country.
The other week – two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31,000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and we’re talking about making America great again.
Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20,000 people – the basketball arena of the Mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and I want to tell you, it was a love fest. Everybody – think of it, 20,000 people – there wasn’t one heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, "There’s got to be one."
There was a word – two words that used to be used a lot called "silent majority". They stopped using them.
The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat different.
I don’t think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because they’re not silent. People are not silent.
They’re disgusted with our incompetent politicians.
They’re disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.
They’re disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job.
They’re disgusted when they’re allowed people to just walk right in front of them and they’re standing there helpless and people just pour into the country.
They’re disgusted when a woman who’s nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years.
They’re disgusted by what’s happening to our country.
And you’re going to look around and you’re going to remember who the people are that are here because we’re doing something special. This is a movement. We’re going to make our country great again.
Believe me, we will make our country great again.
I love you all. Thank you very much.
I’ll tell you what we’re going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now we’re going to get greedy for the United States. We’re going to grab and grab and grab. We’re going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We’re going to make America great again, folks, I’m telling you folks, we’re going to make America great again.
And another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend of Phil too—Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great people. Steve is always calling. He’s always got advice, right Steve? "Donald I think you should do this and that." His advice I like to listen to, I’ll be honest. So Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. You’ve been great friends. Thank you, thank you.
So this was very exciting tonight. But I’ll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals, and I have to tell you pastor [Robert] Jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great. And as you know Liberty University—do we love Liberty University? Huh? Jerry Falwell Jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beginning, and I want to thank Jerry and his family. It’s been amazing, the relationship. So we won the evangelicals.
Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. And it’s a huge humanitarian problem.
And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels and everything is falling apart. Our nation’s in such trouble.
That’s why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I think will greatly help.
But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have – health care, which is a mess.
You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. People are saying "This is turning out to be a disaster." Deductibles are through the roof. The deductibles on Obamacare it’s through the roof.
So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build up our military.
Just the other day, Gen. [Ray] Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness.
Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at Hillary Clinton – and I’ve said she’s the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country.
Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement that’s about to be finalized with Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place.
I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middle East. It’s going to lead to nuclear proliferation – the 24-day clause – everything about it. We don’t even get our prisoners back. You say who negotiates a thing like that?
That won’t happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump.
We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated. I love the poorly educated. We’re the smartest people, we’re the most loyal people, and you know what I’m happy about? Because I’ve been saying it for a long time. 46% were the Hispanics—46%, No. 1 one with Hispanics. I’m really happy about that.
So I’m very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love the country. We’re going in the wrong direction. We’re going to keep—as you know Gitmo, we’re keeping that open, and we’re going to load it up with bad dudes. We’re going to load it up w a lot of bad dudes out there. We’re going to have our borders nice and strong. We’re going to build the wall, you know that. We’re going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexico, and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? It’s going to happen. It’s going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They’ll pay for the wall. They’ll be very happy about it. Believe me. I’ll talk to them. They’re going to be very, very thrilled. They’re going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.
We’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. We’re going to be the smart people. You’re going to be proud of your president, and you’re going to be even prouder of your country, OK?
So tonight folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump International Hotel—I keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. He’s fighting me all the time. But that’s OK. But I just want to say it’s a great state, and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm, it was unbelievable to see.
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember: Make America great again. We’re going to do it, and it’s going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.
A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because you take a look at what’s happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked — one of the true great catastrophes.
And then there’s ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I won’t tell them where and I won’t tell them how. We must...
... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We tell everything. We’re sending troops. We tell them. We’re sending something else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpredictable starting now.
But they’re going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I’m elected president. And they’ll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.
Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what’s happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.
And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 2011. Our military is depleted and we’re asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.
We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.
But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we waste. We’re also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.
This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us an edge.
This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. Our veterans...
Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and that will happen under the Trump administration.
Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania — and this was a horrible time for us — were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.
And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn’t do it
And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on America’s core national security interests. And the following will be my priorities.
In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our friends.
We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests.
Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both countries.
Some say the Russians won’t be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can’t make a deal under my administration, a deal that’s great — not good, great — for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It’s as simple as that. We’re going to find out.
Fixing our relations with China is another important step — and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.
We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doing it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. If need be, that’s what’s going to have to happen.
After I’m elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATO’s outdated mission and structure, grown out of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.
I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must only fight to win.
I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.
Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we’ve had the exact opposite — a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.
After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a complete and total disaster.
I will also be prepared to deploy America’s economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selectively and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the sand. Believe me.
However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.
And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. That’s why I also look and have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect résumés but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. We have to look to new people.
We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don’t know what they’re doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New York Times or being watched on television.
Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.
These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, that’s what we want. We want them to be our allies.
We want the world to be — we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.
To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. Americans.
Americans must know that we’re putting the American people first again on trade.
So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.
No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.
And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor. I’d like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.
It’s time to shake the rust off America’s foreign policy. It’s time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people and American security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.
That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot to be proud of.
In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.
History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.
They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obama’s line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.
They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.
First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. He’s crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.
We’re rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
I’m the only one — believe me, I know them all, I’m the only one who knows how to fix it.
Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I’ve been talking about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so.
They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia.
The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no choice.
The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can’t depend on us. We’ve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we’ve never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.
And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Iran’s treatment of our ten captured sailors — so vividly I remember that day. In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.
When the other side knows you’re not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win — you just can’t win. At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You’ve made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.
Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what we’ve done. All of the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very importantly, the United States itself.
We’ve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they’re starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they’re just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don’t take us seriously anymore. The truth is they don’t respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.
Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It’s called no respect. Absolutely no respect.
Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth — fourth place? The president of the United States making this trip — unprecedented — comes in fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.
The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the power over China, economic power, and people don’t understand it. And with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with North Korea, which is totally out of control.
He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We’ve let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama’s goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.
Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we’ve lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we’re bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we’re watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.
We’re a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We’ve made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.
We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS, and we’re in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama won’t even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.
Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clinton’s failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o’clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don’t blockade, we don’t bomb, we don’t do anything about it. It’s almost as if our country doesn’t even know what’s happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I become president.
To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. It’s going to be a great and reliable ally again. It’s going to be a friend again. We’re going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.
We’re getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water’s edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties — Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War and it’s how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.
First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but it’s also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this, we’re going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.
It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.
Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something.
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.
So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;
and so many other things.
Obama takes guns, starts civil war!
Russia nukes Turkey! WW3 imminent!
Putin found on bear-porn website!
Man accidentally sues himself for molestation.
Mainstream media found to hate whites.
Nukes go missing! Obama silent!
Homicide victims found to rarely talk to police.
Man paralyzed by pork chop.
County to pay $250,000 to advertise lack of funds.
450-lb man arrested for hiding weed in rolls of fat.
Missing woman unwittingly joins search party looking for herself.
Female-named hurricanes kill more than male-named hurricanes because people don't respect them, study finds.
Chinese zoo under fire for disguising hairy dog as lion.
Man buys penis enlarger, gets magnifying glass instead.
4 Amish arrested on alcohol charges after buggy hits cop car.
Uranus takes a pounding more frequently than thought.
Man mugged by a parrot!
Tiger woods plays with own balls, Nike says.
Volunteers search for old Civil War planes.
Army vehicle disappears after being painted camouflage.
Meeting on open meetings is closed.
Federal agents raid gun shop, find weapons.
Student excited dad got head job.
Lady Jacks off to hot start in conference.
Porn star sues over rear-end collision.
Girls' schools still offering 'something special'
Study shows frequent sex enhances pregnancy chances.
Condom truck tips, spills load.
Deer with big rack female, it turns out.
17 remain dead in morgue shooting spree.
Kicking baby considered to be healthy.
Teacher strikes idle kids.
Squad helps dog bite victim.
Autopsy shows woman was still alive hours before she died.
Most earthquake damage is caused by shaking, studies show.
Man accused of killing lawyer receives a new attorney.
State prisons to replace easy-open locks.
Threat disrupts plans to meet about threats.
Obama comes out as Islamic.
Teacher threatens to castrate insubordinate student.
Cop found to have 500-lbs of marijuana in car.
Gang of dogs sentenced to 20 years in prison on drug and weapon charges.
Local school closing down after rat infestation kills scores of pupils.
Woman calls 911 after McDonalds runs out of McNuggets.
Planes forced to land at airports.
Man with handcuffs on escapes police! Still at large!
Man arrested for everything!
Being bullied? Just act less gay, teachers advise.
Cat dies of starvation after being stuck in tree for days.
Fargo man arrested for clearing snow with flamethrower.
Violent sex offender captured.
Local schoolgirl finds body in bathroom.
Man killed by condom!
Criminal: "I could murder a bucket of KFC"
Close look at dating finds men choose attractive women.
Miracle cure kills fifth patient.
Oreos as addictive as cocaine, study shows.
Woman drives car into lake! Says "I thought it was a big puddle"
Cops arrest white woman on warrant for black man.
Woman falls in hospital, told to call ambulance.
Medical marijuana delivery man attacked by ninjas.
Hunter attacked by big bear.
Man dies after running into a cactus, naked.
Cows lose their jobs as milk prices drop.
Slaying suspect 'wants to plead guilty but not that guilty'
Crazed mom goes topless.
Headless body in topless bar.
Man forced to change shirt, sues for $100 trillion.
Fisherman arrested for using wife as shark bait.
Man: "devil otter ate my minivan"
Obama asked "Why don't you solve our problems?", replies "Ain't nobody got time for that!"
Students cook and serve grandparents.
Spy's death 'probably accidental'
Man fights off shark, stitches up own leg, goes to the pub.
Tree farm owner planted seeds in others.
Pregnant woman attacks roommate over butter, blames hormones.
City unsure why the sewer smells.
Priest admits child sex.
Woman expelled from KFC for breastfeeding 42-year-old son.
Donald Trump elected for president! Cities across the country rioting!
Illegal pornography found on Hilary Clinton's personal email servers!
George W. Bush dies of heart attack while in strip club.
George Washington accused of being a member of the illuminati.
Bill Gates sentenced to 20 years in prison for sucking.
Linus Torvalds wins nobel peace prize.
North Dakota legalized recreational marijuana, legislators high during session.
Texas secedes from union! Obama threatens nuclear warfare!
Scientists: brain transplant possible within 10 years.
Studies show legalizing marijuana increases school pupil effectiveness.
Man trying to build nuclear reactor in basement detonates nuclear explosion, wipes out city!
Marijuana supporters want 4/20 declared a national holiday.
Mother forgets child in house after moving out.
Teacher arrested for selling cocaine to students.
Local students start riot against public schools! City under siege!
Congress pushes to make cryptocurrency illegal, Internet explodes!
ISP headquarters victim of gun violence! Shooter says "they wouldn't give me faster internet!"
Man rips tag off of mattress, is sentenced to 40 years in prison.
College study finds jet fuel can't melt steel beams, professor and students killed in 'bus accident'.
Nuclear meltdown in reactor leads to nuclear reactor safety law reform.
Assassin accidentally assassinates himself instead of his target, Obama.
Depressed boy asked if suicidal, replies "I'd rather kill myself than commit suicide".
Man arrested on drug charges, says "what is drugs?"
Man with 60-lbs of marijuana in car pulled over for expired tabs.
Pope declares 'Sample Text' holy words.
12 year old arrested after murdering family and burning house down.
This weeks lottery numbers are S7, 14.5, Z, @@, and Radish. Looks like nobody had the right combination again.
Local crime rates have risen. We're not sure by how much because our calculator was stolen.
Fire department rescues local teen after he gets his dick stuck in a ceiling fan. His words: "instructions unclear"
Woman stabs husband with squirrel.
Sensational news!
Illuminati is real, according to Alex Jones.
God confirmed dead; killed by Humanity's "bs".
Congress rolls back Net Neutrality regulations against wishes of majority of U.S. citizens; Substratum is the answer!
YouTube famous personality "Markiplier" confirmed to be fake; another conspiracy pushed by the C.I.A.
This is a test.
Ok hold on I'm thinking of a news headline.
Mark Zuckerberg scientifically proven to be a cuck.
Earth scientifically proven to be flat; disproves the "round earth" conspiracy pushed by the C.I.A.
Bush did 9/11 confirmed on leaked audio tapes!
Secret U.S. government satellite "Zuma" shown to be a directed energy weapon that can target anyone on the face of the earth; suspected to be a C.I.A. weapon.
Donald Trump assassination plot foiled by secret service.
Artificial Intelligence has reached superhuman levels; a superintelligence has been created and is quickly infecting every device on the Internet! Humanity expected to be extinct within a few hours.
Universities are now offering "meme degrees".
Quantum computing has officially broken modern cryptography! All online security is now invalid! Humanity expected to collapse within a day.
Teen angst turns deadly!
According to all known laws of aviation, there is no way a bee should be able to fly.
Its wings are too small to get its fat little body off the ground.
The bee, of course, flies anyway because bees don't care what humans think is impossible.
Yellow, black. Yellow, black. Yellow, black. Yellow, black.
Ooh, black and yellow!
Let's shake it up a little.
Barry! Breakfast is ready!
Coming!
Hang on a second.
Hello?
Barry?
Adam?
Can you believe this is happening?
I can't.
I'll pick you up.
Looking sharp.
Use the stairs, Your father paid good money for those.
Sorry. I'm excited.
Here's the graduate.
We're very proud of you, son.
A perfect report card, all B's.
Very proud.
Ma! I got a thing going here.
You got lint on your fuzz.
Ow! That's me!
Wave to us! We'll be in row 118,000.
Bye!
Barry, I told you, stop flying in the house!
Hey, Adam.
Hey, Barry.
Is that fuzz gel?
A little. Special day, graduation.
Never thought I'd make it.
Three days grade school, three days high school.
Those were awkward.
Three days college. I'm glad I took a day and hitchhiked around The Hive.
You did come back different.
Hi, Barry. Artie, growing a mustache? Looks good.
Hear about Frankie?
Yeah.
You going to the funeral?
No, I'm not going.
Everybody knows, sting someone, you die.
Don't waste it on a squirrel.
Such a hothead.
I guess he could have just gotten out of the way.
I love this incorporating an amusement park into our day.
That's why we don't need vacations.
Boy, quite a bit of pomp under the circumstances.
Well, Adam, today we are men.
We are!
Bee-men.
Amen!
Hallelujah!
Students, faculty, distinguished bees,
please welcome Dean Buzzwell.
Welcome, New Hive City graduating class of 9:15.
That concludes our ceremonies And begins your career at Honex Industries!
Will we pick our job today?
I heard it's just orientation.
Heads up! Here we go.
Keep your hands and antennas inside the tram at all times.
Wonder what it'll be like?
A little scary.
Welcome to Honex, a division of Honesco and a part of the Hexagon Group.
This is it!
Wow.
Wow.
We know that you, as a bee, have worked your whole life to get to the point where you can work for your whole life.
Honey begins when our valiant Pollen Jocks bring the nectar to The Hive.
Our top-secret formula is automatically color-corrected, scent-adjusted and bubble-contoured into this soothing sweet syrup with its distinctive golden glow you know as... Honey!
That girl was hot.
She's my cousin!
She is?
Yes, we're all cousins.
Right. You're right.
At Honex, we constantly strive to improve every aspect of bee existence.
These bees are stress-testing a new helmet technology.
What do you think he makes?
Not enough.
Here we have our latest advancement, the Krelman.
What does that do?
Catches that little strand of honey that hangs after you pour it.
Saves us millions.
Can anyone work on the Krelman?
Of course. Most bee jobs are small ones.
But bees know that every small job, if it's done well, means a lot.
But choose carefully because you'll stay in the job you pick for the rest of your life.
The same job the rest of your life? I didn't know that.
What's the difference?
You'll be happy to know that bees, as a species, haven't had one day off in 27 million years.
So you'll just work us to death?
We'll sure try.
Wow! That blew my mind!
"What's the difference?"
How can you say that?
One job forever?
That's an insane choice to have to make.
I'm relieved. Now we only have to make one decision in life.
But, Adam, how could they never have told us that?
Why would you question anything? We're bees.
We're the most perfectly functioning society on Earth.
You ever think maybe things work a little too well here?
Like what? Give me one example.
I don't know. But you know what I'm talking about.
Please clear the gate. Royal Nectar Force on approach.
Wait a second. Check it out.
Hey, those are Pollen Jocks!
Wow.
I've never seen them this close.
They know what it's like outside The Hive.
Yeah, but some don't come back.
Hey, Jocks!
Hi, Jocks!
You guys did great!
You're monsters!
You're sky freaks! I love it! I love it!
I wonder where they were.
I don't know.
Their day's not planned.
Outside The Hive, flying who knows where, doing who knows what.
You can't just decide to be a Pollen Jock. You have to be bred for that.
Right.
Look. That's more pollen than you and I will see in a lifetime.
It's just a status symbol.
Bees make too much of it.
Perhaps. Unless you're wearing it and the ladies see you wearing it.
Those ladies?
Aren't they our cousins too?
Distant. Distant.
Look at these two.
Couple of Hive Harrys.
Let's have fun with them.
It must be dangerous being a Pollen Jock.
Yeah. Once a bear pinned me against a mushroom!
He had a paw on my throat, and with the other, he was slapping me!
Oh, my!
I never thought I'd knock him out.
What were you doing during this?
Trying to alert the authorities.
I can autograph that.
A little gusty out there today, wasn't it, comrades?
Yeah. Gusty.
We're hitting a sunflower patch six miles from here tomorrow.
Six miles, huh?
Barry!
A puddle jump for us, but maybe you're not up for it.
Maybe I am.
You are not!
We're going 0900 at J-Gate.
What do you think, buzzy-boy?
Are you bee enough?
I might be. It all depends on what 0900 means.
Hey, Honex!
Dad, you surprised me.
You decide what you're interested in?
Well, there's a lot of choices.
But you only get one.
Do you ever get bored doing the same job every day?
Son, let me tell you about stirring.
You grab that stick, and you just move it around, and you stir it around.
You get yourself into a rhythm.
It's a beautiful thing.
You know, Dad, the more I think about it,
maybe the honey field just isn't right for me.
You were thinking of what, making balloon animals?
That's a bad job for a guy with a stinger.
Janet, your son's not sure he wants to go into honey!
Barry, you are so funny sometimes.
I'm not trying to be funny.
You're not funny! You're going into honey. Our son, the stirrer!
You're gonna be a stirrer?
No one's listening to me!
Wait till you see the sticks I have.
I could say anything right now.
I'm gonna get an ant tattoo!
Let's open some honey and celebrate!
Maybe I'll pierce my thorax. Shave my antennae. Shack up with a grasshopper. Get a gold tooth and call everybody "dawg"!
I'm so proud.
We're starting work today!
Today's the day.
Come on! All the good jobs will be gone.
Yeah, right.
Pollen counting, stunt bee, pouring, stirrer, front desk, hair removal...
Is it still available?
Hang on. Two left!
One of them's yours! Congratulations!
Step to the side.
What'd you get?
Picking crud out. Stellar!
Wow!
Couple of newbies?
Yes, sir! Our first day! We are ready!
Make your choice.
You want to go first?
No, you go.
Oh, my. What's available?
Restroom attendant's open, not for the reason you think.
Any chance of getting the Krelman?
Sure, you're on.
I'm sorry, the Krelman just closed out.
Wax monkey's always open.
The Krelman opened up again.
What happened?
A bee died. Makes an opening. See? He's dead. Another dead one.
Deady. Deadified. Two more dead.
Dead from the neck up. Dead from the neck down. That's life!
Oh, this is so hard!
Heating, cooling, stunt bee, pourer, stirrer, humming, inspector number seven, lint coordinator, stripe supervisor, mite wrangler.
Barry, what do you think I should... Barry?
Barry!
All right, we've got the sunflower patch in quadrant nine...
What happened to you?
Where are you?
I'm going out.
Out? Out where?
Out there.
Oh, no!
I have to, before I go to work for the rest of my life.
You're gonna die! You're crazy! Hello?
Another call coming in.
If anyone's feeling brave, there's a Korean deli on 83rd that gets their roses today.
Hey, guys.
Look at that.
Isn't that the kid we saw yesterday?
Hold it, son, flight deck's restricted.
It's OK, Lou. We're gonna take him up.
Really? Feeling lucky, are you?
Sign here, here. Just initial that.
Thank you.
OK.
You got a rain advisory today, and as you all know, bees cannot fly in rain.
So be careful. As always, watch your brooms, hockey sticks, dogs, birds, bears and bats.
Also, I got a couple of reports of root beer being poured on us.
Murphy's in a home because of it, babbling like a cicada!
That's awful.
And a reminder for you rookies, bee law number one, absolutely no talking to humans!
 All right, launch positions!
Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz! Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz! Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz!
Black and yellow!
Hello!
You ready for this, hot shot?
Yeah. Yeah, bring it on.
Wind, check.
Antennae, check.
Nectar pack, check.
Wings, check.
Stinger, check.
Scared out of my shorts, check.
OK, ladies,
let's move it out!
Pound those petunias, you striped stem-suckers!
All of you, drain those flowers!
Wow! I'm out!
I can't believe I'm out!
So blue.
I feel so fast and free!
Box kite!
Wow!
Flowers!
This is Blue Leader, We have roses visual.
Bring it around 30 degrees and hold.
Roses!
30 degrees, roger. Bringing it around.
Stand to the side, kid.
It's got a bit of a kick.
That is one nectar collector!
Ever see pollination up close?
No, sir.
I pick up some pollen here, sprinkle it over here. Maybe a dash over there, a pinch on that one.
See that? It's a little bit of magic.
That's amazing. Why do we do that?
That's pollen power. More pollen, more flowers, more nectar, more honey for us.
Cool.
I'm picking up a lot of bright yellow, Could be daisies, Don't we need those?
Copy that visual.
Wait. One of these flowers seems to be on the move.
Say again? You're reporting a moving flower?
Affirmative.
That was on the line!
This is the coolest. What is it?
I don't know, but I'm loving this color.
It smells good.
Not like a flower, but I like it.
Yeah, fuzzy.
Chemical-y.
Careful, guys. It's a little grabby.
My sweet lord of bees!
Candy-brain, get off there!
Problem!
Guys!
This could be bad.
Affirmative.
Very close.
Gonna hurt.
Mama's little boy.
You are way out of position, rookie!
Coming in at you like a missile!
Help me!
I don't think these are flowers.
Should we tell him?
I think he knows.
What is this?!
Match point!
You can start packing up, honey, because you're about to eat it!
Yowser!
Gross.
There's a bee in the car!
Do something!
I'm driving!
Hi, bee.
He's back here!
He's going to sting me!
Nobody move. If you don't move, he won't sting you. Freeze!
He blinked!
Spray him, Granny!
What are you doing?!
Wow... the tension level out here is unbelievable.
I gotta get home.
Can't fly in rain. Can't fly in rain. Can't fly in rain.
Mayday! Mayday! Bee going down!
Ken, could you close the window please?
Ken, could you close the window please?
Check out my new resume. I made it into a fold-out brochure. You see? Folds out.
Oh, no. More humans. I don't need this.
What was that?
Maybe this time. This time. This time. This time! This time! This... Drapes!
That is diabolical.
It's fantastic. It's got all my special skills, even my top-ten favorite movies.
What's number one? Star Wars?
Nah, I don't go for that... kind of stuff.
No wonder we shouldn't talk to them. They're out of their minds.
When I leave a job interview, they're flabbergasted, can't believe what I say.
There's the sun. Maybe that's a way out.
I don't remember the sun having a big 75 on it.
I predicted global warming. I could feel it getting hotter. At first I thought it was just me.
Wait! Stop! Bee!
Stand back. These are winter boots.
Wait!
Don't kill him!
You know I'm allergic to them! This thing could kill me!
Why does his life have less value than yours?
Why does his life have any less value than mine? Is that your statement?
I'm just saying all life has value. You don't know what he's capable of feeling.
My brochure!
There you go, little guy.
I'm not scared of him.It's an allergic thing.
 Put that on your resume brochure.
My whole face could puff up.
Make it one of your special skills.
Knocking someone out is also a special skill.
Right. Bye, Vanessa. Thanks.
Vanessa, next week? Yogurt night?
Sure, Ken. You know, whatever.
You could put carob chips on there.
Bye.
Supposed to be less calories.
Bye.
I gotta say something. She saved my life. I gotta say something.
All right, here it goes.
Nah.
What would I say?
I could really get in trouble. It's a bee law. You're not supposed to talk to a human.
I can't believe I'm doing this. I've got to.
Oh, I can't do it. Come on!
No. Yes. No. Do it. I can't.
How should I start it? "You like jazz?" No, that's no good.
Here she comes! Speak, you fool!
Hi!
I'm sorry. You're talking.
Yes, I know.
You're talking!
I'm so sorry.
No, it's OK. It's fine.
I know I'm dreaming. But I don't recall going to bed.
Well, I'm sure this is very disconcerting.
This is a bit of a surprise to me. I mean, you're a bee!
I am. And I'm not supposed to be doing this, but they were all trying to kill me.
And if it wasn't for you... I had to thank you. It's just how I was raised.
That was a little weird. I'm talking with a bee.
Yeah.
I'm talking to a bee. And the bee is talking to me!
I just want to say I'm grateful.
I'll leave now.
Wait! How did you learn to do that?
What?
The talking thing.
Same way you did, I guess. "Mama, Dada, honey." You pick it up.
That's very funny.
Yeah.
Bees are funny. If we didn't laugh, we'd cry with what we have to deal with.
Anyway... Can I... get you something?
Like what?
I don't know. I mean... I don't know. Coffee?
I don't want to put you out.
It's no trouble. It takes two minutes.
It's just coffee.
I hate to impose.
Don't be ridiculous!
Actually, I would love a cup.
Hey, you want rum cake?
I shouldn't.
Have some.
No, I can't.
Come on!
I'm trying to lose a couple micrograms.
Where?
These stripes don't help.
You look great!
I don't know if you know anything about fashion.
Are you all right?
No.
He's making the tie in the cab as they're flying up Madison.
He finally gets there.
He runs up the steps into the church.
The wedding is on.
And he says, "Watermelon?
I thought you said Guatemalan.
Why would I marry a watermelon?"
Is that a bee joke?
That's the kind of stuff we do.
Yeah, different.
So, what are you gonna do, Barry?
About work? I don't know.
I want to do my part for The Hive, but I can't do it the way they want.
I know how you feel.
You do?
Sure.
My parents wanted me to be a lawyer or a doctor, but I wanted to be a florist.
Really?
My only interest is flowers.
Our new queen was just elected with that same campaign slogan.
Anyway, if you look... There's my hive right there. See it?
You're in Sheep Meadow!
Yes! I'm right off the Turtle Pond!
No way! I know that area. I lost a toe ring there once.
Why do girls put rings on their toes?
Why not?
It's like putting a hat on your knee.
Maybe I'll try that.
You all right, ma'am?
Oh, yeah. Fine.
Just having two cups of coffee!
Anyway, this has been great.
Thanks for the coffee.
Yeah, it's no trouble.
Sorry I couldn't finish it. If I did, I'd be up the rest of my life.
Are you...?
Can I take a piece of this with me?
Sure! Here, have a crumb.
Thanks!
Yeah.
All right. Well, then... I guess I'll see you around. Or not.
OK, Barry.
And thank you so much again... for before.
Oh, that? That was nothing.
Well, not nothing, but... Anyway...
This can't possibly work.
He's all set to go.
We may as well try it.
OK, Dave, pull the chute.
Sounds amazing.
It was amazing!
It was the scariest, happiest moment of my life.
Humans! I can't believe you were with humans!
Giant, scary humans!
What were they like?
Huge and crazy. They talk crazy.
They eat crazy giant things.
They drive crazy.
Do they try and kill you, like on TV?
Some of them. But some of them don't.
How'd you get back?
Poodle.
You did it, and I'm glad. You saw whatever you wanted to see.
You had your "experience." Now you can pick out yourjob and be normal.
Well...
Well?
Well, I met someone.
You did? Was she Bee-ish?
A wasp?! Your parents will kill you!
No, no, no, not a wasp.
Spider?
I'm not attracted to spiders.
I know it's the hottest thing, with the eight legs and all. I can't get by that face.
So who is she?
She's... human.
No, no. That's a bee law. You wouldn't break a bee law.
Her name's Vanessa.
Oh, boy.
She's so nice. And she's a florist!
Oh, no! You're dating a human florist!
We're not dating.
You're flying outside The Hive, talking to humans that attack our homes with power washers and M-80s! One-eighth a stick of dynamite!
She saved my life! And she understands me.
This is over!
Eat this.
This is not over! What was that?
They call it a crumb.
It was so stingin' stripey!
And that's not what they eat.
That's what falls off what they eat!
You know what a Cinnabon is?
No.
It's bread and cinnamon and frosting. They heat it up...
Sit down!
...really hot!
Listen to me!
We are not them! We're us.
There's us and there's them!
Yes, but who can deny the heart that is yearning?
There's no yearning. Stop yearning. Listen to me!
You have got to start thinking bee, my friend. Thinking bee!
Thinking bee.
Thinking bee.
Thinking bee! Thinking bee! Thinking bee! Thinking bee!
There he is. He's in the pool.
You know what your problem is, Barry?
I gotta start thinking bee?
How much longer will this go on?
It's been three days! Why aren't you working?
I've got a lot of big life decisions to think about.
What life? You have no life!
You have no job. You're barely a bee!
Would it kill you to make a little honey?
Barry, come out. Your father's talking to you.
Martin, would you talk to him?
Barry, I'm talking to you!
You coming?
Got everything?
All set!
Go ahead. I'll catch up.
Don't be too long.
Watch this!
Vanessa!
We're still here.
I told you not to yell at him.
He doesn't respond to yelling!
Then why yell at me?
Because you don't listen!
I'm not listening to this.
Sorry, I've gotta go.
Where are you going?
I'm meeting a friend.
A girl? Is this why you can't decide?
Bye.
I just hope she's Bee-ish.
They have a huge parade of flowers every year in Pasadena?
To be in the Tournament of Roses, that's every florist's dream!
Up on a float, surrounded by flowers, crowds cheering.
A tournament. Do the roses compete in athletic events?
No. All right, I've got one.
How come you don't fly everywhere?
It's exhausting. Why don't you run everywhere? It's faster.
Yeah, OK, I see, I see.
All right, your turn.
TiVo. You can just freeze live TV? That's insane!
You don't have that?
We have Hivo, but it's a disease. It's a horrible, horrible disease.
Oh, my.
Dumb bees!
You must want to sting all those jerks.
We try not to sting. It's usually fatal for us.
So you have to watch your temper.
Very carefully.
You kick a wall, take a walk, write an angry letter and throw it out. Work through it like any emotion: Anger, jealousy, lust.
Oh, my goodness! Are you OK?
Yeah.
What is wrong with you?!
It's a bug.
He's not bothering anybody.
Get out of here, you creep!
What was that? A Pic 'N' Save circular?
Yeah, it was. How did you know?
It felt like about 10 pages. Seventy-five is pretty much our limit.
You've really got that down to a science.
I lost a cousin to Italian Vogue.
I'll bet.
What in the name of Mighty Hercules is this?
How did this get here? cute Bee, Golden Blossom, Ray Liotta Private Select?
Is he that actor?
I never heard of him.
Why is this here?
For people. We eat it.
You don't have enough food of your own?
Well, yes.
How do you get it?
Bees make it.
I know who makes it! And it's hard to make it!
There's heating, cooling, stirring. You need a whole Krelman thing!
It's organic.
It's our-ganic!
It's just honey, Barry.
Just what?!
Bees don't know about this! This is stealing! A lot of stealing!
You've taken our homes, schools,hospitals! This is all we have!
And it's on sale?! I'm getting to the bottom of this.
I'm getting to the bottom of all of this!
Hey, Hector. You almost done?
Almost.
He is here. I sense it.
Well, I guess I'll go home now and just leave this nice honey out, with no one around.
You're busted, box boy!
I knew I heard something.
So you can talk!
I can talk. And now you'll start talking!
Where you getting the sweet stuff? Who's your supplier?
I don't understand.
I thought we were friends.
The last thing we want to do is upset bees!
You're too late! It's ours now!
You, sir, have crossed the wrong sword!
You, sir, will be lunch for my iguana, Ignacio!
Where is the honey coming from? Tell me where!
Honey Farms! It comes from Honey Farms!
Crazy person!
What horrible thing has happened here?
These faces, they never knew what hit them. And now
they're on the road to nowhere!
Just keep still.
What? You're not dead?
Do I look dead? They will wipe anything that moves. Where you headed?
To Honey Farms. I am onto something huge here.
I'm going to Alaska. Moose blood, crazy stuff. Blows your head off!
I'm going to Tacoma.
And you?
He really is dead.
All right.
Uh-oh!
What is that?!
Oh, no!
A wiper! Triple blade!
Triple blade?
Jump on! It's your only chance, bee!
Why does everything have
to be so doggone clean?!
How much do you people need to see?!
Open your eyes!
Stick your head out the window!
From NPR News in Washington,
I'm Carl Kasell.
But don't kill no more bugs!
Bee!
Moose blood guy!!
You hear something?
Like what?
Like tiny screaming.
Turn off the radio.
Whassup, bee boy?
Hey, Blood.
Just a row of honey jars, as far as the eye could see.
Wow!
I assume wherever this truck goes is where they're getting it. I mean, that honey's ours.
Bees hang tight. We're all jammed in.
It's a close community.
Not us, man. We on our own. Every mosquito on his own.
What if you get in trouble?
You a mosquito, you in trouble. Nobody likes us. They just smack. See a mosquito, smack, smack!
At least you're out in the world. You must meet girls.
Mosquito girls try to trade up, get with a moth, dragonfly. Mosquito girl don't want no mosquito.
You got to be kidding me!
Mooseblood's about to leave the building! So long, bee!
Hey, guys!
Mooseblood!
I knew I'd catch y'all down here.
Did you bring your crazy straw?
We throw it in jars, slap a label on it, and it's pretty much pure profit.
What is this place?
A bee's got a brain the size of a pinhead.
They are pinheads!
Pinhead.
Check out the new smoker.
Oh, sweet. That's the one you want. The Thomas 3000!
Smoker?
Ninety puffs a minute, semi-automatic. Twice the nicotine, all the tar. A couple breaths of this knocks them right out.
They make the honey, and we make the money.
"They make the honey, and we make the money"?
Oh, my!
What's going on? Are you OK?
Yeah. It doesn't last too long.
Do you know you're in a fake hive with fake walls?
Our queen was moved here. We had no choice.
This is your queen? That's a man in women's clothes! That's a drag queen!
What is this?
Oh, no!
There's hundreds of them!
Bee honey.
Our honey is being brazenly stolen on a massive scale!
This is worse than anything bears have done! I intend to do something.
Oh, Barry, stop.
Who told you humans are taking our honey? That's a rumor.
Do these look like rumors?
That's a conspiracy theory. These are obviously doctored photos. How did you get mixed up in this?
He's been talking to humans.
What? Talking to humans?!
He has a human girlfriend. And they make out!
Make out? Barry!
We do not.
You wish you could.
Whose side are you on?
The bees!
I dated a cricket once in San Antonio. Those crazy legs kept me up all night.
Barry, this is what you want to do with your life?
I want to do it for all our lives. Nobody works harder than bees!
Dad, I remember you coming home so overworked
your hands were still stirring. You couldn't stop.
I remember that.
What right do they have to our honey?
We live on two cups a year. They put it in lip balm for no reason whatsoever!
Even if it's true, what can one bee do?
Sting them where it really hurts.
In the face! The eye!
That would hurt.
No.
Up the nose? That's a killer.
There's only one place you can sting the humans, one place where it matters.
Hive at Five, The Hive's only full-hour action news source.
No more bee beards!
With Bob Bumble at the anchor desk. Weather with Storm Stinger. Sports with Buzz Larvi. And Jeanette Chung.
Good evening. I'm Bob Bumble.
And I'm Jeanette Ohung.
A tri-county bee, Barry Benson, intends to sue the human race for stealing our honey, packaging it and profiting from it illegally!
Tomorrow night on Bee Larry King, we'll have three former queens here in our studio, discussing their new book, classy Ladies, out this week on Hexagon.
Tonight we're talking to Barry Benson.
Did you ever think, "I'm a kid from The Hive. I can't do this"?
Bees have never been afraid to change the world.
What about Bee Oolumbus? Bee Gandhi? Bejesus?
Where I'm from, we'd never sue humans.
We were thinking of stickball or candy stores.
How old are you?
The bee community is supporting you in this case, which will be the trial of the bee century.
You know, they have a Larry King in the human world too.
It's a common name. Next week...
He looks like you and has a show and suspenders and colored dots...
Next week...
Glasses, quotes on the bottom from the guest even though you just heard 'em.
Bear Week next week! They're scary, hairy and here live.
Always leans forward, pointy shoulders, squinty eyes, very Jewish.
In tennis, you attack at the point of weakness!
It was my grandmother, Ken. She's 81.
Honey, her backhand's a joke!
I'm not gonna take advantage of that?
Quiet, please.
Actual work going on here.
Is that that same bee?
Yes, it is!
I'm helping him sue the human race.
Hello.
Hello, bee.
This is Ken.
Yeah, I remember you. Timberland, size ten and a half. Vibram sole, I believe.
Why does he talk again?
Listen, you better go 'cause we're really busy working.
But it's our yogurt night!
Bye-bye.
Why is yogurt night so difficult?!
You poor thing. You two have been at this for hours!
Yes, and Adam here has been a huge help.
Frosting...
How many sugars?
Just one. I try not to use the competition.
So why are you helping me?
Bees have good qualities. And it takes my mind off the shop. Instead of flowers, people are giving balloon bouquets now.
Those are great, if you're three.
And artificial flowers.
Oh, those just get me psychotic!
Yeah, me too.
Bent stingers, pointless pollination.
Bees must hate those fake things!
Nothing worse than a daffodil that's had work done.
Maybe this could make up for it a little bit.
This lawsuit's a pretty big deal.
I guess.
You sure you want to go through with it?
Am I sure? When I'm done with the humans, they won't be able to say, "Honey, I'm home," without paying a royalty!
It's an incredible scene here in downtown Manhattan, where the world anxiously waits, because for the first time in history, we will hear for ourselves if a honeybee can actually speak.
What have we gotten into here, Barry?
It's pretty big, isn't it?
I can't believe how many humans don't work during the day.
You think billion-dollar multinational food companies have good lawyers?
Everybody needs to stay behind the barricade.
What's the matter?
I don't know, I just got a chill.
Well, if it isn't the bee team.
You boys work on this?
All rise! The Honorable Judge Bumbleton presiding.
All right. Case number 4475,
Superior Court of New York,
Barry Bee Benson v. the Honey Industry is now in session.
Mr. Montgomery, you're representing the five food companies collectively?
A privilege.
Mr. Benson... you're representing all the bees of the world?
I'm kidding. Yes, Your Honor, we're ready to proceed.
Mr. Montgomery, your opening statement, please.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, my grandmother was a simple woman. Born on a farm, she believed it was man's divine right to benefit from the bounty of nature God put before us.
If we lived in the topsy-turvy world Mr. Benson imagines, just think of what would it mean.
I would have to negotiate with the silkworm for the elastic in my britches!
Talking bee!
How do we know this isn't some sort of holographic motion-picture-capture Hollywood wizardry?
They could be using laser beams! Robotics! Ventriloquism! Cloning! For all we know, he could be on steroids!
Mr. Benson?
Ladies and gentlemen, there's no trickery here. I'm just an ordinary bee. Honey's pretty important to me. It's important to all bees. We invented it! We make it. And we protect it with our lives.
Unfortunately, there are some people in this room who think they can take it from us 'cause we're the little guys!
I'm hoping that, after this is all over, you'll see how, by taking our honey, you not only take everything we have but everything we are!
I wish he'd dress like that all the time. So nice!
Call your first witness.
So, Mr. Klauss Vanderhayden of Honey Farms, big company you have.
I suppose so.
I see you also own Honeyburton and Honron!
Yes, they provide beekeepers for our farms.
Beekeeper. I find that to be a very disturbing term.
I don't imagine you employ any bee-free-ers, do you?
No.
I couldn't hear you.
No.
No. Because you don't free bees. You keep bees. Not only that, it seems you thought a bear would be an appropriate image for a jar of honey.
They're very lovable creatures. Yogi Bear, Fozzie Bear, Build-A-Bear.
You mean like this?
Bears kill bees!
How'd you like his head crashing through your living room?! Biting into your couch! Spitting out your throw pillows! OK, that's enough. Take him away.
So, Mr. Sting, thank you for being here. Your name intrigues me. Where have I heard it before?
I was with a band called The Police.
But you've never been a police officer, have you?
No, I haven't.
No, you haven't. And so here we have yet another example of bee culture casually stolen by a human for nothing more than a prance-about stage name.
Oh, please.
Have you ever been stung, Mr. Sting? Because I'm feeling a little stung, Sting. Or should I say... Mr. Gordon M. Sumner!
That's not his real name?! You idiots!
Mr. Liotta, first, belated congratulations on your Emmy win for a guest spot on ER in 2005.
Thank you. Thank you.
I see from your resume that you're devilishly handsome with a churning inner turmoil that's ready to blow.
I enjoy what I do. Is that a crime?
Not yet it isn't. But is this what it's come to for you? Exploiting tiny, helpless bees so you don't have to rehearse your part and learn your lines, sir?
Watch it, Benson! I could blow right now!
This isn't a goodfella.
This is a badfella!
Why doesn't someone just step on this creep, and we can all go home?!
Order in this court!
You're all thinking it!
Order! Order, I say!
Say it!
Mr. Liotta, please sit down!
I think it was awfully nice of that bear to pitch in like that. I think the jury's on our side.
Are we doing everything right, legally?
I'm a florist.
Right. Well, here's to a great team.
To a great team!
Well, hello.
Ken!
Hello.
I didn't think you were coming.
No, I was just late I tried to call, but... the battery.
I didn't want all this to go to waste,
so I called Barry. Luckily, he was free.
Oh, that was lucky.
There's a little left. I could heat it up.
Yeah, heat it up, sure, whatever.
So I hear you're quite a tennis player. I'm not much for the game myself. The ball's a little grabby.
That's where I usually sit. Right... there.
Ken, Barry was looking at your resume, and he agreed with me that eating with chopsticks isn't really a special skill.
You think I don't see what you're doing?
I know how hard it is to find the right job. We have that in common.
Do we?
Bees have 100 percent employment, but we do jobs like taking the crud out.
That's just what I was thinking about doing.
Ken, I let Barry borrow your razor for his fuzz. I hope that was all right.
I'm going to drain the old stinger.
Yeah, you do that.
Look at that.
You know, I've just about had it with your little Mind Games.
What's that?
Italian Vogue.
Mamma mia, that's a lot of pages.
A lot of ads.
Remember what Van said, why is your life more valuable than mine?
Funny, I just can't seem to recall that! I think something stinks in here!
I love the smell of flowers.
How do you like the smell of flames?!
Not as much.
Water bug! Not taking sides!
Ken, I'm wearing a Chapstick hat!
This is pathetic!
I've got issues!
Well, well, well, a royal flush!
You're bluffing.
Am I?
Surf's up, dude!
Poo water!
That bowl is gnarly. Except for those dirty yellow rings!
Kenneth! What are you doing?!
You know, I don't even like honey! I don't eat it!
We need to talk! He's just a little bee!
And he happens to be the nicest bee I've met in a long time!
Long time? What are you talking about?! Are there other bugs in your life?
 No, but there are other things bugging me in life. And you're one of them!
Fine! Talking bees, no yogurt night...
My nerves are fried from riding on this emotional roller coaster!
Goodbye, Ken.
And for your information, I prefer sugar-free, artificial sweeteners made by man!
I'm sorry about all that.
I know it's got an aftertaste! I like it!
I always felt there was some kind of barrier between Ken and me. I couldn't overcome it.
Oh, well.
Are you OK for the trial?
I believe Mr. Montgomery is about out of ideas.
We would like to call Mr. Barry Benson Bee to the stand.
Good idea! You can really see why he's considered one of the best lawyers...
Yeah.
Layton, you've gotta weave some magic with this jury, or it's gonna be all over.
Don't worry. The only thing I have to do to turn this jury around is to remind them of what they don't like about bees.
You got the tweezers?
Are you allergic?
Only to losing, son. Only to losing.
Mr. Benson Bee, I'll ask you what I think we'd all like to know.
What exactly is your relationship to that woman?
We're friends.
Good friends?
Yes.
How good? Do you live together?
Wait a minute... Are you her little... bedbug?
I've seen a bee documentary or two. From what I understand, doesn't your queen give birth to all the bee children?
Yeah, but...
So those aren't your real parents!
Oh, Barry...
Yes, they are!
Hold me back!
You're an illegitimate bee, aren't you, Benson?
He's denouncing bees!
Don't y'all date your cousins?
Objection!
I'm going to pincushion this guy!
Adam, don't! It's what he wants!
Oh, I'm hit!! Oh, lordy, I am hit!
Order! Order!
The venom! The venom is coursing through my veins! I have been felled by a winged beast of destruction! You see? You can't treat them like equals! They're striped savages! Stinging's the only thing they know! It's their way!
Adam, stay with me.
I can't feel my legs.
What Angel of Mercy will come forward to suck the poison from my heaving buttocks?
I will have order in this court. Order! Order, please!
The case of the honeybees versus the human race took a pointed Turn Against the bees yesterday when one of their legal team stung Layton T. Montgomery.
Hey, buddy.
Hey.
Is there much pain?
Yeah.
I... I blew the whole case, didn't I?
It doesn't matter. What matters is
you're alive. You could have died.
I'd be better off dead. Look at me.
They got it from the cafeteria downstairs, in a tuna sandwich. Look, there's a little celery still on it.
What was it like to sting someone?
I can't explain it. It was all... All adrenaline and then...and then ecstasy!
All right.
You think it was all a trap?
Of course. I'm sorry. I flew us right into this.
What were we thinking? Look at us. We're just a couple of bugs in this world.
What will the humans do to us if they win?
I don't know.
I hear they put the roaches in motels. That doesn't sound so bad.
Adam, they check in, but they don't check out!
Oh, my.
Could you get a nurse to close that window?
Why?
The smoke.
Bees don't smoke.
Right. Bees don't smoke.
Bees don't smoke!
But some bees are smoking.
That's it! That's our case!
It is? It's not over?
Get dressed. I've gotta go somewhere.
Get back to the court and stall. Stall any way you can.
And assuming you've done step correctly, you're ready for the tub.
Mr. Flayman.
Yes? Yes, Your Honor!
Where is the rest of your team?
Well, Your Honor, it's interesting. Bees are trained to fly haphazardly, and as a result, we don't make very good time.
I actually heard a funny story about...
Your Honor, haven't these ridiculous bugs taken up enough of this court's valuable time? How much longer will we allow these absurd shenanigans to go on?
They have presented no compelling evidence to support their charges against my clients, who run legitimate businesses.
I move for a complete dismissal of this entire case!
Mr. Flayman, I'm afraid I'm going to have to consider Mr. Montgomery's motion.
But you can't! We have a terrific case.
Where is your proof?
Where is the evidence?
Show me the smoking gun!
Hold it, Your Honor!
You want a smoking gun? Here is your smoking gun.
What is that?
It's a bee smoker!
What, this? This harmless little contraption? This couldn't hurt a fly, let alone a bee.
Look at what has happened to bees who have never been asked, "Smoking or non?" Is this what nature intended for us? To be forcibly addicted to smoke machines and man-made wooden slat work camps?
Living out our lives as honey slaves to the white man?
What are we gonna do?
He's playing the species card.
Ladies and gentlemen, please, free these bees!
Free the bees! Free the bees! Free the bees! Free the bees! Free the bees!
The court finds in favor of the bees!
Vanessa, we won!
I knew you could do it! High-five!
Sorry.
I'm OK! You know what this means?
All the honey will finally belong to the bees.
Now we won't have to work so hard all the time.
This is an unholy perversion of the balance of nature, Benson.
You'll regret this.
Barry, how much honey is out there?
All right. One at a time.
Barry, who are you wearing?
My sweater is Ralph Lauren, and I have no pants.
What if Montgomery's right?
What do you mean?
We've been living the bee way a long time, 27 million years.
Congratulations on your victory. What will you demand as a settlement?
First, we'll demand a complete shutdown of all bee work camps.
Then we want back the honey that was ours to begin with, every last drop.
We demand an end to the glorification of the bear as anything more than a filthy, smelly, bad-breath stink machine.
We're all aware of what they do in the woods.
Wait for my signal. Take him out.
He'll have nauseous for a few hours, then he'll be fine.
And we will no longer tolerate bee-negative nicknames...
But it's just a prance-about stage name!
...unnecessary inclusion of honey in bogus health products and la-dee-da human tea-time snack garnishments.
Can't breathe.
Bring it in, boys!
Hold it right there! Good.
Tap it.
Mr. Buzzwell, we just passed three cups and there's gallons more coming!
I think we need to shut down!
Shut down? We've never shut down.
Shut down honey production!
Stop making honey!
Turn your key, sir!
What do we do now?
Cannonball!
We're shutting honey production!
Mission abort.
Aborting pollination and nectar detail.
Returning to base.
Adam, you wouldn't believe how much honey was out there.
Oh, yeah?
What's going on? Where is everybody?
Are they out celebrating?
They're home.
They don't know what to do. Laying out, sleeping in.
I heard your Uncle Carl was on his way to San Antonio with a cricket.
At least we got our honey back.
Sometimes I think, so what if humans liked our honey? Who wouldn't?
It's the greatest thing in the world! I was excited to be part of making it.
This was my new desk. This was my new job. I wanted to do it really well. And now...
Now I can't.
I don't understand why they're not happy.
I thought their lives would be better!
They're doing nothing. It's amazing.
Honey really changes people.
You don't have any idea what's going on, do you?
What did you want to show me?
This.
What happened here?
That is not the half of it.
Oh, no. Oh, my.
They're all wilting.
Doesn't look very good, does it?
No.
And whose fault do you think that is?
You know, I'm gonna guess bees.
Bees?
Specifically, me.
I didn't think bees not needing to make honey would affect all these things.
It's not just flowers. Fruits, vegetables, they all need bees.
That's our whole SAT test right there.
Take away produce, that affects the entire animal kingdom.
And then, of course...
The human species?
So if there's no more pollination, it could all just go south here, couldn't it?
I know this is also partly my fault.
How about a suicide pact?
How do we do it?
I'll sting you, you step on me.
That just kills you twice.
Right, right.
Listen, Barry... sorry, but I gotta get going.
I had to open my mouth and talk.
Vanessa?
Vanessa? Why are you leaving?
Where are you going?
To the final Tournament of Roses parade in Pasadena.
They've moved it to this weekend because all the flowers are dying.
It's the Last Chance I'll ever have to see it.
Vanessa, I just wanna say I'm sorry.
I never meant it to turn out like this.
I know. Me neither.
Tournament of Roses.
Roses can't do sports.
Wait a minute. Roses. Roses?
Roses!
Vanessa!
Roses?!
Barry?
Roses are flowers!
Yes, they are.
Flowers, bees, pollen!
I know.
That's why this is the last parade.
Maybe not.
Could you ask him to slow down?
Could you slow down?
Barry!
OK, I made a huge mistake.
This is a total disaster, all my fault.
Yes, it kind of is.
I've ruined the planet. I wanted to help you with the flower shop. I've made it worse.
Actually, it's completely closed down.
I thought maybe you were remodeling.
But I have another idea, and it's greater than my previous ideas combined.
I don't want to hear it!
All right, they have the roses, the roses have the pollen.
I know every bee, plant and flower bud in this park.
All we gotta do is get what they've got back here with what we've got.
Bees.
Park.
Pollen!
Flowers.
Repollination!
Across the nation!
Tournament of Roses, Pasadena, California.
They've got nothing but flowers, floats and cotton candy.
Security will be tight.
I have an idea.
Vanessa Bloome, FTD.
Official floral business. It's real.
Sorry, ma'am. Nice brooch.
Thank you. It was a gift.
Once inside, we just pick the right float.
How about The Princess and the Pea?
I could be the princess, and you could be the pea!
Yes, I got it.
Where should I sit?
What are you?
I believe I'm the pea.
The pea?
It goes under the mattresses.
Not in this fairy tale, sweetheart.
I'm getting the marshal.
You do that! This whole parade is a fiasco!
Let's see what this baby'll do.
Hey, what are you doing?!
Then all we do is blend in with traffic... without arousing suspicion.
Once at the airport, there's no stopping us.
Stop! Security.
You and your insect pack your float?
Yes.
Has it been in your possession the entire time?
Would you remove your shoes?
Remove your stinger.
It's part of me.
I know. Just having some fun.
Enjoy your flight.
Then if we're lucky, we'll have just enough pollen to do the job.
Can you believe how lucky we are? We have just enough pollen to do the job!
I think this is gonna work.
It's got to work.
Attention, passengers, this is Captain Scott. We have a bit of bad weather in New York. It looks like we'll experience a couple hours delay.
Barry, these are cut flowers with no water. They'll never make it.
I gotta get up there and talk to them.
Be careful.
Can I get help with the Sky Mall magazine? I'd like to order the talking inflatable nose and ear hair trimmer.
Captain, I'm in a real situation.
What'd you say, Hal?
Nothing.
Bee!
Don't freak out! My entire species...
What are you doing?
Wait a minute! I'm an attorney!
Who's an attorney?
Don't move.
Oh, Barry.
Good afternoon, passengers. This is your captain. Would a Miss Vanessa Bloome in 24B please report to the cockpit? And please hurry!
What happened here?
There was a DustBuster, a toupee, a life raft exploded.
One's bald, one's in a boat, they're both unconscious!
Is that another bee joke?
No!
No one's flying the plane!
This is JFK control tower, Flight 356. What's your status?
This is Vanessa Bloome. I'm a florist from New York.
Where's the pilot?
He's unconscious, and so is the copilot.
Not good. Does anyone onboard have flight experience?
As a matter of fact, there is.
Who's that?
Barry Benson.
From the honey trial?! Oh, great.
Vanessa, this is nothing more than a big metal bee.
It's got giant wings, huge engines.
I can't fly a plane.
Why not? Isn't John Travolta a pilot?
Yes.
How hard could it be?
Wait, Barry!
We're headed into some lightning.
This is Bob Bumble. We have some late-breaking news from JFK Airport, where a suspenseful scene is developing.
Barry Benson, fresh from his legal victory...
That's Barry!
...is attempting to land a plane, loaded with people, flowers and an incapacitated flight crew.
Flowers?!
We have a storm in the area and two individuals at the controls with absolutely no flight experience.
Just a minute. There's a bee on that plane.
I'm quite familiar with Mr. Benson and his no-account compadres.
They've done enough damage.
But isn't he your only hope?
Technically, a bee shouldn't be able to fly at all.
Their wings are too small... Haven't we heard this a million times?
"The surface area of the wings and body mass make no sense."
Get this on the air!
Got it.
Stand by.
We're going live.
The way we work may be a mystery to you. Making honey takes a lot of bees doing a lot of small jobs.
But let me tell you about a small job. If you do it well, it makes a big difference.
More than we realized. To us, to everyone.
That's why I want to get bees back to working together. That's the bee way! We're not made of Jell-O.
We get behind a fellow.
Black and yellow!
Hello!
Left, right, down, hover.
Hover?
Forget hover.
This isn't so hard.
Beep-beep! Beep-beep!
Barry, what happened?!
Wait, I think we were on autopilot the whole time.
That may have been helping me.
And now we're not!
So it turns out I cannot fly a plane.
All of you, let's get behind this fellow! Move it out!
Move out!
Our only chance is if I do what I'd do, you copy me with the wings of the plane!
Don't have to yell.
I'm not yelling! We're in a lot of trouble.
It's very hard to concentrate with that panicky tone in your voice!
It's not a tone. I'm panicking!
I can't do this!
Vanessa, pull yourself together. You have to snap out of it!
You snap out of it.
You snap out of it.
You snap out of it!
You snap out of it!
You snap out of it!
You snap out of it!
You snap out of it!
You snap out of it!
Hold it!
Why? Come on, it's my turn.
How is the plane flying?
I don't know.
Hello?
Benson, got any flowers for a happy occasion in there?
The Pollen Jocks!
They do get behind a fellow.
Black and yellow.
Hello.
All right, let's drop this tin can on the blacktop.
Where? I can't see anything. Can you?
No, nothing. It's all cloudy.
Come on. You got to think bee, Barry.
Thinking bee.
Thinking bee.
Thinking bee!
Thinking bee! Thinking bee!
Wait a minute. I think I'm feeling something.
What?
I don't know. It's strong, pulling me.
Like a 27-million-year-old instinct.
Bring the nose down.
Thinking bee!
Thinking bee! Thinking bee!
What in the world is on the tarmac?
Get some lights on that!
Thinking bee!
Thinking bee! Thinking bee!
Vanessa, aim for the flower.
OK.
Cut the engines. We're going in on bee power. Ready, boys?
Affirmative!
Good. Good. Easy, now. That's it.
Land on that flower!
Ready? Full reverse!
Spin it around!
Not that flower! The other one!
Which one?
That flower.
I'm aiming at the flower!
That's a fat guy in a flowered shirt.
I mean the giant pulsating flower made of millions of bees!
Pull forward. Nose down. Tail up.
Rotate around it.
This is insane, Barry!
This's the only way I know how to fly.
Am I koo-koo-kachoo, or is this plane flying in an insect-like pattern?
Get your nose in there. Don't be afraid. Smell it. Full reverse!
Just drop it. Be a part of it.
Aim for the center!
Now drop it in! Drop it in, woman!
Come on, already.
Barry, we did it! You taught me how to fly!
Yes. No high-five!
Right.
Barry, it worked!
Did you see the giant flower?
What giant flower? Where? Of course
I saw the flower! That was genius!
Thank you.
But we're not done yet.
Listen, everyone!
This runway is covered with the last pollen from the last flowers available anywhere on Earth.
That means this is our Last Chance. We're the only ones who make honey, pollinate flowers and dress like this.
If we're gonna survive as a species, this is our moment! What do you say?
Are we going to be bees, or just Museum of Natural History keychains?
We're bees!
Keychain!
Then follow me! Except Keychain.
Hold on, Barry. Here. You've earned this.
Yeah!
I'm a Pollen Jock! And it's a perfect fit. All I gotta do are the sleeves.
Oh, yeah.
That's our Barry.
Mom! The bees are back!
If anybody needs to make a call, now's the time. I got a feeling we'll be working late tonight!
Here's your change. Have a great afternoon! Can I help who's next?
Would you like some honey with that?
It is bee-approved. Don't forget these.
Milk, cream, cheese, it's all me.  And I don't see a nickel!
Sometimes I just feel like a piece of meat!
I had no idea.
Barry, I'm sorry.
Have you got a moment?
Would you excuse me?
My mosquito associate will help you.
Sorry I'm late.
He's a lawyer too?
I was already a blood-sucking parasite. All I needed was a briefcase.
Have a great afternoon!
Barry, I just got this huge tulip order, and I can't get them anywhere.
No problem, Vannie. Just leave it to me.
You're a lifesaver, Barry. Can I help who's next?
All right, scramble, jocks! It's time to fly.
Thank you, Barry!
That bee is living my life!
Let it go, Kenny.
When will this nightmare end?!
Let it all go.
Beautiful day to fly.
Sure is.
Between you and me,
I was dying to get out of that office.
You have got to start thinking bee, my friend.
Thinking bee!
Me?
Hold it. Let's just stop for a second. Hold it.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry, everyone. Can we stop here?
I'm not making a major life decision during a production number!
All right. Take ten, everybody. Wrap it up, guys.
I had virtually no rehearsal for that.
The history of all hitherto existing societies is the history
of class struggles.
Freeman and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf,
guild-master and journeyman, in a word, oppressor and oppressed,
stood in constant opposition to one another, carried on an
uninterrupted, now hidden, now open fight, a fight that each time
ended, either in a revolutionary re-constitution of society at
large, or in the common ruin of the contending classes.
In the earlier epochs of history, we find almost everywhere a
complicated arrangement of society into various orders, a
manifold gradation of social rank.  In ancient Rome we have
patricians, knights, plebeians, slaves; in the Middle Ages,
feudal lords, vassals, guild-masters, journeymen, apprentices,
serfs; in almost all of these classes, again, subordinate
gradations.
The modern bourgeois society that has sprouted from the ruins
of feudal society has not done away with class antagonisms.  It
has but established new classes, new conditions of oppression,
new forms of struggle in place of the old ones.  Our epoch, the
epoch of the bourgeoisie, possesses, however, this distinctive
feature: it has simplified the class antagonisms. Society as a
whole is more and more splitting up into two great hostile camps,
into two great classes, directly facing each other: Bourgeoisie
and Proletariat.
From the serfs of the Middle Ages sprang the chartered burghers
of the earliest towns.  From these burgesses the first elements
of the bourgeoisie were developed.
The discovery of America, the rounding of the Cape, opened up
fresh ground for the rising bourgeoisie. The East-Indian and
Chinese markets, the colonisation of America, trade with
the colonies, the increase in the means of exchange and in
commodities generally, gave to commerce, to navigation, to
industry, an impulse never before known, and thereby, to the
revolutionary element in the tottering feudal society, a rapid
development.
The feudal system of industry, under which industrial production
was monopolised by closed guilds, now no longer sufficed for the
growing wants of the new markets.  The manufacturing system took
its place.  The guild-masters were pushed on one side by the
manufacturing middle class; division of labour between the
different corporate guilds vanished in the face of division of
labour in each single workshop.
Meantime the markets kept ever growing, the demand ever rising.
Even manufacture no longer sufficed.  Thereupon, steam and
machinery revolutionised industrial production.  The place of
manufacture was taken by the giant, Modern Industry, the place of
the industrial middle class, by industrial millionaires, the
leaders of whole industrial armies, the modern bourgeois.
Modern industry has established the world-market, for which the
discovery of America paved the way.  This market has given an
immense development to commerce, to navigation, to communication
by land.  This development has, in its time, reacted on the
extension of industry; and in proportion as industry, commerce,
navigation, railways extended, in the same proportion the
bourgeoisie developed, increased its capital, and pushed into the
background  every class handed down from the Middle Ages.
We see, therefore, how the modern bourgeoisie is itself the
product of a long course of development, of a series of
revolutions in the modes of production and of exchange.
Each step in the development of the bourgeoisie was accompanied
by a corresponding political advance of that class.  An
oppressed class under the sway of the feudal nobility, an
armed and self-governing association in the mediaeval commune;
here independent urban republic (as in Italy and Germany),
there taxable "third estate" of the monarchy (as in France),
afterwards, in the  period of manufacture proper, serving either
the semi-feudal or the absolute monarchy as a counterpoise
against the nobility, and, in fact, corner-stone of the great
monarchies in general, the bourgeoisie has at last, since the
establishment of Modern Industry and of the world-market,
conquered for itself, in the modern representative State,
exclusive political sway.  The executive of the modern State is
but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole
bourgeoisie.
The bourgeoisie, historically, has played a most revolutionary
part.
The bourgeoisie, wherever it has got the upper hand, has put an
end to all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations.  It has
pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to
his "natural superiors," and has left remaining no other nexus
between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous "cash
payment."  It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of
religious fervour, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine
sentimentalism, in the icy water of egotistical calculation.  It
has resolved personal worth into exchange value, and in place of
the numberless and indefeasible chartered freedoms, has set up that
single, unconscionable freedom--Free Trade.  In one word, for
exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, naked,
shameless, direct, brutal exploitation.
The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation
hitherto honoured and looked up to with reverent awe.  It has
converted the physician, the lawyer, the priest, the poet, the
man of science, into its paid wage labourers.
The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental
veil, and has reduced the family relation to a mere money
relation.
The bourgeoisie has disclosed how it came to pass that the
brutal display of vigour in the Middle Ages, which Reactionists
so much admire, found its fitting complement in the most slothful
indolence.  It has been the first to show what man's activity can
bring about.  It has accomplished wonders far surpassing Egyptian
pyramids, Roman aqueducts, and Gothic cathedrals; it has
conducted expeditions that put in the shade all former Exoduses
of nations and crusades.
The bourgeoisie cannot exist without constantly revolutionising
the instruments of production, and thereby the relations of
production, and with them the whole relations of society.
Conservation of the old modes of production in unaltered form,
was, on the contrary, the first condition of existence for all
earlier industrial classes. Constant revolutionising of
production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions,
everlasting uncertainty and agitation distinguish the bourgeois
epoch from all earlier ones. All fixed, fast-frozen relations,
with their train of ancient and venerable prejudices and
opinions, are swept away, all new-formed ones become antiquated
before they can ossify. All that is solid melts into air, all
that is holy is profaned, and man is at last compelled to face
with sober senses, his real conditions of life, and his
relations with his kind.
The need of a constantly expanding market for its products
chases the bourgeoisie over the whole surface of the globe. It
must nestle everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connexions
everywhere.
The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world-market
given a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in
every country.  To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has
drawn from under the feet of industry the national ground on
which it stood.  All old-established national industries have
been destroyed or are daily being destroyed.  They are dislodged
by new industries, whose introduction becomes a life and death
question for all civilised nations, by industries that no longer
work up indigenous raw material, but raw material drawn from the
remotest zones; industries whose products are consumed, not only
at home, but in every quarter of the globe.  In place of the old
wants, satisfied by the productions of the country, we find new
wants, requiring for their satisfaction the products of distant
lands and climes.  In place of the old local and national
seclusion and self-sufficiency, we have intercourse in every
direction, universal inter-dependence of nations.  And as in
material, so also in intellectual production.  The intellectual
creations of individual nations become common property.  National
one-sidedness and narrow-mindedness become more and more
impossible, and from the numerous national and local literatures,
there arises a world literature.
The bourgeoisie, by the rapid improvement of all instruments of
production, by the immensely facilitated means of communication,
draws all, even the most barbarian, nations into civilisation.
The cheap prices of its commodities are the heavy artillery with
which it batters down all Chinese walls, with which it forces the
barbarians' intensely obstinate hatred of foreigners to
capitulate.  It compels all nations, on pain of extinction, to
adopt the bourgeois mode of production; it compels them to
introduce what it calls civilisation into their midst, i.e., to
become bourgeois themselves.  In one word, it creates a world
after its own image.
The bourgeoisie has subjected the country to the rule of the
towns.  It has created enormous cities, has greatly increased the
urban population as compared with the rural, and has thus rescued
a considerable part of the population from the idiocy of rural
life.  Just as it has made the country dependent on the towns, so
it has made barbarian and semi-barbarian countries dependent on
the civilised ones, nations of peasants on nations of bourgeois,
the East on the West.
The bourgeoisie keeps more and more doing away with the
scattered state of the population, of the means of production,
and of property.  It has agglomerated production, and has
concentrated property in a few hands.  The necessary consequence
of this was political centralisation.  Independent, or but
loosely connected provinces, with separate interests, laws,
governments and systems of taxation, became lumped together into
one nation, with one government, one code of laws, one national
class-interest, one frontier and one customs-tariff.  The
bourgeoisie, during its rule of scarce one hundred years, has
created more massive and more colossal productive forces than
have all preceding generations together.  Subjection of Nature's
forces to man, machinery, application of chemistry to industry
and agriculture, steam-navigation, railways, electric telegraphs,
clearing of whole continents for cultivation, canalisation of
rivers, whole populations conjured out of the ground--what
earlier century had even a presentiment that such productive
forces slumbered in the lap of social labour?
We see then: the means of production and of exchange, on whose
foundation the bourgeoisie built itself up, were generated in
feudal society.  At a certain stage in the development of these
means of production and of exchange, the conditions under which
feudal society produced and exchanged, the feudal organisation of
agriculture and manufacturing industry, in one word, the feudal
relations of property became no longer compatible with the
already developed productive forces; they became so many fetters.
They had to be burst asunder; they were burst asunder.
Into their place stepped free competition, accompanied by a
social and political constitution adapted to it, and by the
economical and political sway of the bourgeois class.
A similar movement is going on before our own eyes.  Modern
bourgeois society with its relations of production, of exchange
and of property, a society that has conjured up such gigantic
means of production and of exchange, is like the sorcerer, who is
no longer able to control the powers of the nether world whom he
has called up by his spells.  For many a decade past the history
of industry and commerce is but the history of the revolt of
modern productive forces against modern conditions of production,
against the property relations that are the conditions for the
existence of the bourgeoisie and of its rule.  It is enough to
mention the commercial crises that by their periodical return put
on its trial, each time more threateningly, the existence of the
entire bourgeois society.  In these crises a great part not only
of the existing products, but also of the previously created
productive forces, are periodically destroyed.  In these crises
there breaks out an epidemic that, in all earlier epochs, would
have seemed an absurdity--the epidemic of over-production.
Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary
barbarism; it appears as if a famine, a universal war of
devastation had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence;
industry and commerce seem to be destroyed; and why?  Because
there is too much civilisation, too much means of subsistence,
too much industry, too much commerce.  The productive forces at
the disposal of society no longer tend to further the development
of the conditions of bourgeois property; on the contrary, they
have become too powerful for these conditions, by which they are
fettered, and so soon as they overcome these fetters, they bring
disorder into the whole of bourgeois society, endanger the
existence of bourgeois property.  The conditions of bourgeois
society are too narrow to comprise the wealth created by them.
And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises?  On the one
hand inforced destruction of a mass of productive forces; on the
other, by the conquest of new markets, and by the more thorough
exploitation of the old ones.  That is to say, by paving the
way for more extensive and more destructive crises, and by
diminishing the means whereby crises are prevented.
The weapons with which the bourgeoisie felled feudalism to the
ground are now turned against the bourgeoisie itself.
But not only has the bourgeoisie forged the weapons that bring
death to itself; it has also called into existence the men who
are to wield those weapons--the modern working class--the
proletarians.
In proportion as the bourgeoisie, i.e., capital, is developed,
in the same proportion is the proletariat, the modern working
class, developed--a class of labourers, who live only so long
as they find work, and who find work only so long as their labour
increases capital.  These labourers, who must sell themselves
piece-meal, are a commodity, like every other article of
commerce, and are consequently exposed to all the vicissitudes of
competition, to all the fluctuations of the market.
Owing to the extensive use of machinery and to division of
labour, the work of the proletarians has lost all individual
character, and consequently, all charm for the workman.  He
becomes an appendage of the machine, and it is only the most
simple, most monotonous, and most easily acquired knack, that is
required of him.  Hence, the cost of production of a workman is
restricted, almost entirely, to the means of subsistence that he
requires for his maintenance, and for the propagation of his
race.  But the price of a commodity, and therefore also of
labour, is equal to its cost of production.  In proportion
therefore, as the repulsiveness of the work increases, the wage
decreases.  Nay more, in proportion as the use of machinery and
division of labour increases, in the same proportion the burden
of toil also increases, whether by prolongation of the working
hours, by increase of the work exacted in a given time or by
increased speed of the machinery, etc.
Modern industry has converted the little workshop of the
patriarchal master into the great factory of the industrial
capitalist.  Masses of labourers, crowded into the factory, are
organised like soldiers.  As privates of the industrial army they
are placed under the command of a perfect hierarchy of officers
and sergeants.  Not only are they slaves of the bourgeois class,
and of the bourgeois State; they are daily and hourly enslaved by
the machine, by the over-looker, and, above all, by the
individual bourgeois manufacturer himself.  The more openly this
despotism proclaims gain to be its end and aim, the more petty,
the more hateful and the more embittering it is.
The less the skill and exertion of strength implied in manual
labour, in other words, the more modern industry becomes
developed, the more is the labour of men superseded by that of
women. Differences of age and sex have no longer any distinctive
social validity for the working class. All are instruments of
labour, more or less expensive to use, according to their age
and sex.
No sooner is the exploitation of the labourer by the manufacturer,
so far at an end, that he receives his wages in cash, than he is
set upon by the other portions of the bourgeoisie, the landlord,
the shopkeeper, the pawnbroker, etc.
The lower strata of the middle class--the small tradespeople,
shopkeepers, retired tradesmen generally, the handicraftsmen and
peasants--all these sink gradually into the proletariat, partly
because their diminutive capital does not suffice for the scale
on which Modern Industry is carried on, and is swamped in the
competition with the large capitalists, partly because their
specialized skill is rendered worthless by the new methods of
production.  Thus the proletariat is recruited from all classes
of the population.
The proletariat goes through various stages of development.
With its birth begins its struggle with the bourgeoisie.  At
first the contest is carried on by individual labourers, then by
the workpeople of a factory, then by the operatives of one trade,
in one locality, against the individual bourgeois who directly
exploits them.  They direct their attacks not against the
bourgeois conditions of production, but against the instruments
of production themselves; they destroy imported wares that
compete with their labour, they smash to pieces machinery, they
set factories ablaze, they seek to restore by force the vanished
status of the workman of the Middle Ages.
At this stage the labourers still form an incoherent mass
scattered over the whole country, and broken up by their mutual
competition.  If anywhere they unite to form more compact bodies,
this is not yet the consequence of their own active union, but of
the union of the bourgeoisie, which class, in order to attain its
own political ends, is compelled to set the whole proletariat in
motion, and is moreover yet, for a time, able to do so.  At this
stage, therefore, the proletarians do not fight their enemies,
but the enemies of their enemies, the remnants of absolute
monarchy, the landowners, the non-industrial bourgeois, the petty
bourgeoisie.  Thus the whole historical movement is concentrated
in the hands of the bourgeoisie; every victory so obtained is a
victory for the bourgeoisie.
But with the development of industry the proletariat not only
increases in number; it becomes concentrated in greater masses,
its strength grows, and it feels that strength more.  The various
interests and conditions of life within the ranks of the
proletariat are more and more equalised, in proportion as
machinery obliterates all distinctions of labour, and nearly
everywhere reduces wages to the same low level.  The growing
competition among the bourgeois, and the resulting commercial
crises, make the wages of the workers ever more fluctuating.  The
unceasing improvement of machinery, ever more rapidly developing,
makes their livelihood more and more precarious; the collisions
between individual workmen and individual bourgeois take more and
more the character of collisions between two classes.  Thereupon
the workers begin to form combinations (Trades Unions) against
the bourgeois; they club together in order to keep up the rate of
wages; they found permanent associations in order to make
provision beforehand for these occasional revolts.  Here and
there the contest breaks out into riots.
Now and then the workers are victorious, but only for a time.
The real fruit of their battles lies, not in the immediate
result, but in the ever-expanding union of the workers.  This
union is helped on by the improved means of communication that
are created by modern industry and that place the workers of
different localities in contact with one another.  It was just
this contact that was needed to centralise the numerous local
struggles, all of the same character, into one national struggle
between classes.  But every class struggle is a political
struggle.  And that union, to attain which the burghers of the
Middle Ages, with their miserable highways, required centuries,
the modern proletarians, thanks to railways, achieve in a few
years.
This organisation of the proletarians into a class, and
consequently into a political party, is continually being upset
again by the competition between the workers themselves.  But it
ever rises up again, stronger, firmer, mightier.  It compels
legislative recognition of particular interests of the workers,
by taking advantage of the divisions among the bourgeoisie
itself.  Thus the ten-hours' bill in England was carried.
Altogether collisions between the classes of the old society
further, in many ways, the course of development of the
proletariat. The bourgeoisie finds itself involved in a constant
battle. At first with the aristocracy; later on, with those
portions of the bourgeoisie itself, whose interests have become
antagonistic to the progress of industry; at all times, with the
bourgeoisie of foreign countries. In all these battles it sees
itself compelled to appeal to the proletariat, to ask for its
help, and thus, to drag it into the political arena. The
bourgeoisie itself, therefore, supplies the proletariat with its
own instruments of political and general education, in other
words, it furnishes the proletariat with weapons for fighting
the bourgeoisie.
Further, as we have already seen, entire sections of the ruling
classes are, by the advance of industry, precipitated into the
proletariat, or are at least threatened in their conditions of
existence.  These also supply the proletariat with fresh elements
of enlightenment and progress.
Finally, in times when the class struggle nears the decisive
hour, the process of dissolution going on within the ruling
class, in fact within the whole range of society, assumes such a
violent, glaring character, that a small section of the ruling
class cuts itself adrift, and joins the revolutionary class, the
class that holds the future in its hands.  Just as, therefore, at
an earlier period, a section of the nobility went over to the
bourgeoisie, so now a portion of the bourgeoisie goes over to the
proletariat, and in particular, a portion of the bourgeois
ideologists, who have raised themselves to the level of
comprehending theoretically the historical movement as a whole.
Of all the classes that stand face to face with the bourgeoisie
today, the proletariat alone is a really revolutionary class.
The other classes decay and finally disappear in the face of
Modern Industry; the proletariat is its special and essential
product.  The lower middle class, the small manufacturer, the
shopkeeper, the artisan, the peasant, all these fight against the
bourgeoisie, to save from extinction their existence as fractions
of the middle class.  They are therefore not revolutionary, but
conservative.  Nay more, they are reactionary, for they try
to roll back the wheel of history.  If by chance they are
revolutionary, they are so only in view of their impending
transfer into the proletariat, they thus defend not their
present, but their future interests, they desert their own
standpoint to place themselves at that of the proletariat.
The "dangerous class," the social scum, that passively rotting
mass thrown off by the lowest layers of old society, may,
here and there, be swept into the movement by a proletarian
revolution; its conditions of life, however, prepare it far more
for the part of a bribed tool of reactionary intrigue.
In the conditions of the proletariat, those of old society at
large are already virtually swamped.  The proletarian is without
property; his relation to his wife and children has no longer
anything in common with the bourgeois family-relations; modern
industrial labour, modern subjection to capital, the same in
England as in France, in America as in Germany, has stripped him
of every trace of national character.  Law, morality, religion,
are to him so many bourgeois prejudices, behind which lurk in
ambush just as many bourgeois interests.
All the preceding classes that got the upper hand, sought to
fortify their already acquired status by subjecting society at
large to their conditions of appropriation.  The proletarians
cannot become masters of the productive forces of society, except
by abolishing their own previous mode of appropriation, and
thereby also every other previous mode of appropriation.  They
have nothing of their own to secure and to fortify; their mission
is to destroy all previous securities for, and insurances of,
individual property.
All previous historical movements were movements of minorities,
or in the interests of minorities.  The proletarian movement is
the self-conscious, independent movement of the immense majority,
in the interests of the immense majority.  The proletariat, the
lowest stratum of our present society, cannot stir, cannot raise
itself up, without the whole superincumbent strata of official
society being sprung into the air.
Though not in substance, yet in form, the struggle of the
proletariat with the bourgeoisie is at first a national struggle.
The proletariat of each country must, of course, first of all
settle matters with its own bourgeoisie.
In depicting the most general phases of the development of the
proletariat, we traced the more or less veiled civil war, raging
within existing society, up to the point where that war breaks
out into open revolution, and where the violent overthrow of the
bourgeoisie lays the foundation for the sway of the proletariat.
Hitherto, every form of society has been based, as we have
already seen, on the antagonism of oppressing and oppressed
classes.  But in order to oppress a class, certain conditions
must be assured to it under which it can, at least, continue its
slavish existence.  The serf, in the period of serfdom, raised
himself to membership in the commune, just as the petty
bourgeois, under the yoke of feudal absolutism, managed to
develop into a bourgeois.  The modern laborer, on the contrary,
instead of rising with the progress of industry, sinks deeper and
deeper below the conditions of existence of his own class.  He
becomes a pauper, and pauperism develops more rapidly than
population and wealth.  And here it becomes evident, that the
bourgeoisie is unfit any longer to be the ruling class in
society, and to impose its conditions of existence upon society
as an over-riding law.  It is unfit to rule because it is
incompetent to assure an existence to its slave within his
slavery, because it cannot help letting him sink into such a
state, that it has to feed him, instead of being fed by him.
Society can no longer live under this bourgeoisie, in other
words, its existence is no longer compatible with society.
The essential condition for the existence, and for the sway of
the bourgeois class, is the formation and augmentation of
capital; the condition for capital is wage-labour.  Wage-labour
rests exclusively on competition between the laborers.  The
advance of industry, whose involuntary promoter is the bourgeoisie,
replaces the isolation of the labourers, due to competition,
by their revolutionary combination, due to association.  The
development of Modern Industry, therefore, cuts from under its
feet the very foundation on which the bourgeoisie produces and
appropriates products.  What the bourgeoisie, therefore, produces,
above all, is its own grave-diggers.  Its fall and the victory of
the proletariat are equally inevitable.
In what relation do the Communists stand to the proletarians as a
whole?
The Communists do not form a separate party opposed to other
working-class parties.
They have no interests separate and apart from those of the
proletariat as a whole.
They do not set up any sectarian principles of their own,
by which to shape and mould the proletarian movement.
The Communists are distinguished from the other working-class parties
by this only: (1) In the national struggles of the proletarians
of the different countries, they point out and bring to the front
the common interests of the entire proletariat, independently of
all nationality.  (2) In the various stages of development which the
struggle of the working class against the bourgeoisie has to pass
through, they always and everywhere represent the interests of the
movement as a whole.
The Communists, therefore, are on the one hand, practically,
the most advanced and resolute section of the working-class
parties of every country, that section which pushes forward
all others; on the other hand, theoretically, they have over
the great mass of the proletariat the advantage of clearly
understanding the line of march, the conditions, and the ultimate
general results of the proletarian movement.
The immediate aim of the Communist is the same as that of all
the other proletarian parties: formation of the proletariat into
a class, overthrow of the bourgeois supremacy, conquest of
political power by the proletariat.
The theoretical conclusions of the Communists are in no way
based on ideas or principles that have been invented, or
discovered, by this or that would-be universal reformer.  They
merely express, in general terms, actual relations springing from
an existing class struggle, from a historical movement going on
under our very eyes.  The abolition of existing property
relations is not at all a distinctive feature of Communism.
All property relations in the past have continually been subject
to historical change consequent upon the change in historical
conditions.
The French Revolution, for example, abolished feudal property in
favour of bourgeois property.
The distinguishing feature of Communism is not the abolition of
property generally, but the abolition of bourgeois property. But
modern bourgeois private property is the final and most complete
expression of the system of producing and appropriating products,
that is based on class antagonisms, on the exploitation of the
many by the few.
In this sense, the theory of the Communists may be summed up in
the single sentence: Abolition of private property.
We Communists have been reproached with the desire of abolishing
the right of personally acquiring property as the fruit of a
man's own labour, which property is alleged to be the groundwork
of all personal freedom, activity and independence.
Hard-won, self-acquired, self-earned property!  Do you mean the
property of the petty artisan and of the small peasant, a form of
property that preceded the bourgeois form?  There is no need to
abolish that; the development of industry has to a great extent
already destroyed it, and is still destroying it daily.
Or do you mean modern bourgeois private property?
But does wage-labour create any property for the labourer?  Not
a bit.  It creates capital, i.e., that kind of property which
exploits wage-labour, and which cannot increase except upon
condition of begetting a new supply of wage-labour for fresh
exploitation.  Property, in its present form, is based on the
antagonism of capital and wage-labour.  Let us examine both sides
of this antagonism.
To be a capitalist, is to have not only a purely personal, but a
social status in production.  Capital is a collective product,
and only by the united action of many members, nay, in the last
resort, only by the united action of all members of society,
can it be set in motion.
Capital is, therefore, not a personal, it is a social power.
When, therefore, capital is converted into common property, into
the property of all members of society, personal property is not
thereby transformed into social property. It is only the social
character of the property that is changed. It loses its
class-character.
Let us now take wage-labour.
The average price of wage-labour is the minimum wage, i.e.,
that quantum of the means of subsistence, which is absolutely
requisite in bare existence as a labourer.  What, therefore, the
wage-labourer appropriates by means of his labour, merely
suffices to prolong and reproduce a bare existence.  We by no
means intend to abolish this personal appropriation of the
products of labour, an appropriation that is made for the
maintenance and reproduction of human life, and that leaves no
surplus wherewith to command the labour of others.  All that we
want to do away with, is the miserable character of this
appropriation, under which the labourer lives merely to increase
capital, and is allowed to live only in so far as the interest of
the ruling class requires it.
In bourgeois society, living labour is but a means to increase
accumulated labour.  In Communist society, accumulated labour
is but a means to widen, to enrich, to promote the existence
of the labourer.
In bourgeois society, therefore, the past dominates the present;
in Communist society, the present dominates the past.  In
bourgeois society capital is independent and has individuality,
while the living person is dependent and has no individuality.
And the abolition of this state of things is called by the
bourgeois, abolition of individuality and freedom! And rightly
so. The abolition of bourgeois individuality, bourgeois
independence, and bourgeois freedom is undoubtedly aimed at.
By freedom is meant, under the present bourgeois conditions of
production, free trade, free selling and buying.
But if selling and buying disappears, free selling and buying
disappears also.  This talk about free selling and buying, and
all the other "brave words" of our bourgeoisie about freedom in
general, have a meaning, if any, only in contrast with restricted
selling and buying, with the fettered traders of the Middle Ages,
but have no meaning when opposed to the Communistic abolition of
buying and selling, of the bourgeois conditions of production,
and of the bourgeoisie itself.
You are horrified at our intending to do away with private
property.  But in your existing society, private property is
already done away with for nine-tenths of the population; its
existence for the few is solely due to its non-existence in the
hands of those nine-tenths.  You reproach us, therefore, with
intending to do away with a form of property, the necessary
condition for whose existence is the non-existence of any
property for the immense majority of society.
In one word, you reproach us with intending to do away with your
property.  Precisely so; that is just what we intend.
From the moment when labour can no longer be converted into
capital, money, or rent, into a social power capable of being
monopolised, i.e., from the moment when individual property can
no longer be transformed into bourgeois property, into capital,
from that moment, you say individuality vanishes.
You must, therefore, confess that by "individual" you mean no
other person than the bourgeois, than the middle-class owner of
property.  This person must, indeed, be swept out of the way, and
made impossible.
Communism deprives no man of the power to appropriate the
products of society; all that it does is to deprive him of the
power to subjugate the labour of others by means of such
appropriation.
It has been objected that upon the abolition of private property
all work will cease, and universal laziness will overtake us.
According to this, bourgeois society ought long ago to have gone
to the dogs through sheer idleness; for those of its members who
work, acquire nothing, and those who acquire anything, do not
work. The whole of this objection is but another expression of
the tautology: that there can no longer be any wage-labour when
there is no longer any capital.
All objections urged against the Communistic mode of producing
and appropriating material products, have, in the same way,
been urged against the Communistic modes of producing and
appropriating intellectual products.  Just as, to the bourgeois,
the disappearance of class property is the disappearance of
production itself, so the disappearance of class culture is to
him identical with the disappearance of all culture.
That culture, the loss of which he laments, is, for the enormous
majority, a mere training to act as a machine.
But don't wrangle with us so long as you apply, to our intended
abolition of bourgeois property, the standard of your bourgeois
notions of freedom, culture, law, etc.  Your very ideas are but
the outgrowth of the conditions of your bourgeois production and
bourgeois property, just as your jurisprudence is but the will of
your class made into a law for all, a will, whose essential
character and direction are determined by the economical
conditions of existence of your class.
The selfish misconception that induces you to transform into
eternal laws of nature and of reason, the social forms
springing from your present mode of production and form of
property--historical relations that rise and disappear in the
progress of production--this misconception you share with every
ruling class that has preceded you.  What you see clearly in the
case of ancient property, what you admit in the case of feudal
property, you are of course forbidden to admit in the case of
your own bourgeois form of property.
Abolition of the family!  Even the most radical flare up at this
infamous proposal of the Communists.
On what foundation is the present family, the bourgeois family,
based?  On capital, on private gain.  In its completely developed
form this family exists only among the bourgeoisie.  But this
state of things finds its complement in the practical absence of
the family among the proletarians, and in public prostitution.
The bourgeois family will vanish as a matter of course when its
complement vanishes, and both will vanish with the vanishing of
capital.
Do you charge us with wanting to stop the exploitation of
children by their parents?  To this crime we plead guilty.
But, you will say, we destroy the most hallowed of relations,
when we replace home education by social.
And your education!  Is not that also social, and determined by the
social conditions under which you educate, by the intervention,
direct or indirect, of society, by means of schools, etc.?  The
Communists have not invented the intervention of society in
education; they do but seek to alter the character of that
intervention, and to rescue education from the influence of the
ruling class.
The bourgeois clap-trap about the family and education, about
the hallowed co-relation of parent and child, becomes all the
more disgusting, the more, by the action of Modern Industry, all
family ties among the proletarians are torn asunder, and their
children transformed into simple articles of commerce and
instruments of labour.
But you Communists would introduce community of women, screams
the whole bourgeoisie in chorus.
The bourgeois sees in his wife a mere instrument of production.
He hears that the instruments of production are to be exploited
in common, and, naturally, can come to no other conclusion than
that the lot of being common to all will likewise fall to the
women.
He has not even a suspicion that the real point is to do away
with the status of women as mere instruments of production.
For the rest, nothing is more ridiculous than the
virtuous indignation of our bourgeois at the community of women
which, they pretend, is to be openly and officially established
by the Communists.  The Communists have no need to introduce
community of women; it has existed almost from time immemorial.
Our bourgeois, not content with having the wives and daughters
of their proletarians at their disposal, not to speak of common
prostitutes, take the greatest pleasure in seducing each other's
wives.
Bourgeois marriage is in reality a system of wives in common
and thus, at the most, what the Communists might possibly
be reproached with, is that they desire to introduce, in
substitution for a hypocritically concealed, an openly legalised
community of women. For the rest, it is self-evident that the
abolition of the present system of production must bring with it
the abolition of the community of women springing from that
system, i.e., of prostitution both public and private.
The Communists are further reproached with desiring to abolish
countries and nationality.
The working men have no country.  We cannot take from them what
they have not got.  Since the proletariat must first of all
acquire political supremacy, must rise to be the leading class of
the nation, must constitute itself the nation, it is, so far,
itself national, though not in the bourgeois sense of the word.
National differences and antagonisms between peoples are daily
more and more vanishing, owing to the development of the
bourgeoisie, to freedom of commerce, to the world-market, to
uniformity in the mode of production and in the conditions of
life corresponding thereto.
The supremacy of the proletariat will cause them to vanish still
faster. United action, of the leading civilised countries at
least, is one of the first conditions for the emancipation of
the proletariat.
In proportion as the exploitation of one individual by another
is put an end to, the exploitation of one nation by another will
also be put an end to.  In proportion as the antagonism between
classes within the nation vanishes, the hostility of one nation
to another will come to an end.
The charges against Communism made from a religious, a
philosophical, and, generally, from an ideological standpoint,
are not deserving of serious examination.
Does it require deep intuition to comprehend that man's ideas,
views and conceptions, in one word, man's consciousness, changes
with every change in the conditions of his material existence, in
his social relations and in his social life?
What else does the history of ideas prove, than that
intellectual production changes its character in proportion as
material production is changed? The ruling ideas of each age
have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.
When people speak of ideas that revolutionise society, they do
but express the fact, that within the old society, the elements
of a new one have been created, and that the dissolution of the
old ideas keeps even pace with the dissolution of the old
conditions of existence.
When the ancient world was in its last throes, the ancient
religions were overcome by Christianity.  When Christian ideas
succumbed in the 18th century to rationalist ideas, feudal
society fought its death battle with the then revolutionary
bourgeoisie.  The ideas of religious liberty and freedom of
conscience merely gave expression to the sway of free competition
within the domain of knowledge.
"Undoubtedly," it will be said, "religious, moral, philosophical
and juridical ideas have been modified in the course of
historical development.  But religion, morality philosophy,
political science, and law, constantly survived this change."
"There are, besides, eternal truths, such as Freedom, Justice,
etc. that are common to all states of society. But Communism
abolishes eternal truths, it abolishes all religion, and all
morality, instead of constituting them on a new basis; it
therefore acts in contradiction to all past historical experience."
What does this accusation reduce itself to?  The history of
all past society has consisted in the development of class
antagonisms, antagonisms that assumed different forms at
different epochs.
But whatever form they may have taken, one fact is common to all
past ages, viz., the exploitation of one part of society by the
other. No wonder, then, that the social consciousness of past
ages, despite all the multiplicity and variety it displays,
moves within certain common forms, or general ideas, which
cannot completely vanish except with the total disappearance of
class antagonisms.
The Communist revolution is the most radical rupture with
traditional property relations; no wonder that its development
involves the most radical rupture with traditional ideas.
But let us have done with the bourgeois objections to Communism.
We have seen above, that the first step in the revolution by the
working class, is to raise the proletariat to the position of
ruling as to win the battle of democracy.
The proletariat will use its political supremacy to wrest, by
degrees, all capital from the bourgeoisie, to centralise all
instruments of production in the hands of the State, i.e., of the
proletariat organised as the ruling class; and to increase the
total of productive forces as rapidly as possible.
Of course, in the beginning, this cannot be effected except by
means of despotic inroads on the rights of property, and on
the conditions of bourgeois production; by means of measures,
therefore, which appear economically insufficient and untenable,
but which, in the course of the movement, outstrip themselves,
necessitate further inroads upon the old social order, and are
unavoidable as a means of entirely revolutionising the mode of
production.
These measures will of course be different in different
countries.
Nevertheless in the most advanced countries, the following will
be pretty generally applicable.
When, in the course of development, class distinctions have
disappeared, and all production has been concentrated in the
hands of a vast association of the whole nation, the public power
will lose its political character.  Political power, properly so
called, is merely the organised power of one class for oppressing
another.  If the proletariat during its contest with the
bourgeoisie is compelled, by the force of circumstances, to
organise itself as a class, if, by means of a revolution, it
makes itself the ruling class, and, as such, sweeps away by force
the old conditions of production, then it will, along with these
conditions, have swept away the conditions for the existence of
class antagonisms and of classes generally, and will thereby have
abolished its own supremacy as a class.
In place of the old bourgeois society, with its classes and
class antagonisms, we shall have an association, in which
the free development of each is the condition for the free
development of all.
Owing to their historical position, it became the vocation of the
aristocracies of France and England to write pamphlets against
modern bourgeois society.  In the French revolution of July 1830,
and in the English reform agitation, these aristocracies again
succumbed to the hateful upstart.  Thenceforth, a serious political
contest was altogether out of the question.  A literary battle
alone remained possible.  But even in the domain of literature
the old cries of the restoration period had become impossible.
In order to arouse sympathy, the aristocracy were obliged to
lose sight, apparently, of their own interests, and to formulate
their indictment against the bourgeoisie in the interest of the
exploited working class alone.  Thus the aristocracy took their
revenge by singing lampoons on their new master, and whispering
in his ears sinister prophecies of coming catastrophe.
In this way arose Feudal Socialism: half lamentation, half
lampoon; half echo of the past, half menace of the future; at
times, by its bitter, witty and incisive criticism, striking the
bourgeoisie to the very heart's core; but always ludicrous in
its effect, through total incapacity to comprehend the march of
modern history.
The aristocracy, in order to rally the people to them, waved the
proletarian alms-bag in front for a banner.  But the people, so
often as it joined them, saw on their hindquarters the old feudal
coats of arms, and deserted with loud and irreverent laughter.
One section of the French Legitimists and "Young England"
exhibited this spectacle.
In pointing out that their mode of exploitation was different to
that of the bourgeoisie, the feudalists forget that they
exploited under circumstances and conditions that were quite
different, and that are now antiquated.  In showing that, under
their rule, the modern proletariat never existed, they forget
that the modern bourgeoisie is the necessary offspring of their
own form of society.
For the rest, so little do they conceal the reactionary
character of their criticism that their chief accusation against
the bourgeoisie amounts to this, that under the bourgeois regime
a class is being developed, which is destined to cut up root and
branch the old order of society.
What they upbraid the bourgeoisie with is not so much that it
creates a proletariat, as that it creates a revolutionary
proletariat.
In political practice, therefore, they join in all coercive
measures against the working class; and in ordinary life,
despite their high falutin phrases, they stoop to pick up the
golden apples dropped from the tree of industry, and to barter
truth, love, and honour for traffic in wool, beetroot-sugar, and
potato spirits.
As the parson has ever gone hand in hand with the landlord,
so has Clerical Socialism with Feudal Socialism.
Nothing is easier than to give Christian asceticism a Socialist
tinge. Has not Christianity declaimed against private property,
against marriage, against the State? Has it not preached in the
place of these, charity and poverty, celibacy and mortification
of the flesh, monastic life and Mother Church? Christian
Socialism is but the holy, water with which the priest consecrates
the heart-burnings of the aristocrat.
B. Petty-Bourgeois Socialism
The feudal aristocracy was not the only class that was ruined by
the bourgeoisie, not the only class whose conditions of existence
pined and perished in the atmosphere of modern bourgeois society.
The mediaeval burgesses and the small peasant proprietors were
the precursors of the modern bourgeoisie.  In those countries
which are but little developed, industrially and commercially,
these two classes still vegetate side by side with the rising
bourgeoisie.
In countries where modern civilisation has become fully
developed, a new class of petty bourgeois has been formed,
fluctuating between proletariat and bourgeoisie and ever renewing
itself as a supplementary part of bourgeois society.  The
individual members of this class, however, are being constantly
hurled down into the proletariat by the action of competition,
and, as modern industry develops, they even see the moment
approaching when they will completely disappear as an independent
section of modern society, to be replaced, in manufactures,
agriculture and commerce, by overlookers, bailiffs and shopmen.
In countries like France, where the peasants constitute far more
than half of the population, it was natural that writers who
sided with the proletariat against the bourgeoisie, should use,
in their criticism of the bourgeois regime, the standard of the
peasant and petty bourgeois, and from the standpoint of these
intermediate classes should take up the cudgels for the working
class.  Thus arose petty-bourgeois Socialism.  Sismondi was the
head of this school, not only in France but also in England.
This school of Socialism dissected with great acuteness the
contradictions in the conditions of modern production.  It laid
bare the hypocritical apologies of economists.  It proved,
incontrovertibly, the disastrous effects of machinery and
division of labour; the concentration of capital and land in a
few hands; overproduction and crises; it pointed out the
inevitable ruin of the petty bourgeois and peasant, the misery
of the proletariat, the anarchy in production, the crying
inequalities in the distribution of wealth, the industrial war of
extermination between nations, the dissolution of old moral
bonds, of the old family relations, of the old nationalities.
In its positive aims, however, this form of Socialism aspires
either to restoring the old means of production and of exchange,
and with them the old property relations, and the old society, or
to cramping the modern means of production and of exchange,
within the framework of the old property relations that have
been, and were bound to be, exploded by those means.  In either
case, it is both reactionary and Utopian.
Its last words are: corporate guilds for manufacture,
patriarchal relations in agriculture.
Ultimately, when stubborn historical facts had dispersed all
intoxicating effects of self-deception, this form of Socialism
ended in a miserable fit of the blues.
C. German, or "True," Socialism
The Socialist and Communist literature of France, a literature
that originated under the pressure of a bourgeoisie in power, and
that was the expression of the struggle against this power, was
introduced into Germany at a time when the bourgeoisie, in that
country, had just begun its contest with feudal absolutism.
German philosophers, would-be philosophers, and beaux esprits,
eagerly seized on this literature, only forgetting, that when
these writings immigrated from France into Germany, French social
conditions had not immigrated along with them.  In contact with
German social conditions, this French literature lost all its
immediate practical significance, and assumed a purely literary
aspect.  Thus, to the German philosophers of the eighteenth
century, the demands of the first French Revolution were nothing
more than the demands of "Practical Reason" in general, and the
utterance of the will of the revolutionary French bourgeoisie
signified in their eyes the law of pure Will, of Will as it was
bound to be, of true human Will generally.
The world of the German literate consisted solely in bringing
the new French ideas into harmony with their ancient philosophical
conscience, or rather, in annexing the French ideas without
deserting their own philosophic point of view.
This annexation took place in the same way in which a foreign
language is appropriated, namely, by translation.
It is well known how the monks wrote silly lives of Catholic
Saints over the manuscripts on which the classical works of
ancient heathendom had been written.  The German literate
reversed this process with the profane French literature.  They
wrote their philosophical nonsense beneath the French original.
For instance, beneath the French criticism of the economic
functions of money, they wrote "Alienation of Humanity," and
beneath the French criticism of the bourgeois State they wrote
"dethronement of the Category of the General," and so forth.
The introduction of these philosophical phrases at the back of
the French historical criticisms they dubbed "Philosophy of
Action," "True Socialism," "German Science of Socialism,"
"Philosophical Foundation of Socialism," and so on.
The French Socialist and Communist literature was thus completely
emasculated. And, since it ceased in the hands of the German to express
the struggle of one class with the other, he felt conscious of having
overcome "French one-sidedness" and of representing, not true
requirements, but the requirements of truth; not the interests of the
proletariat, but the interests of Human Nature, of Man in general, who
belongs to no class, has no reality, who exists only in the misty realm
of philosophical fantasy.
This German Socialism, which took its schoolboy task so seriously
and solemnly, and extolled its poor stock-in-trade in such
mountebank fashion, meanwhile gradually lost its pedantic
innocence.
The fight of the German, and especially, of the Prussian bourgeoisie,
against feudal aristocracy and absolute monarchy, in other words, the
liberal movement, became more earnest.
By this, the long wished-for opportunity was offered to "True"
Socialism of confronting the political movement with the
Socialist demands, of hurling the traditional anathemas
against liberalism, against representative government, against
bourgeois competition, bourgeois freedom of the press, bourgeois
legislation, bourgeois liberty and equality, and of preaching to
the masses that they had nothing to gain, and everything to lose,
by this bourgeois movement.  German Socialism forgot, in the nick
of time, that the French criticism, whose silly echo it was,
presupposed the existence of modern bourgeois society, with its
corresponding economic conditions of existence, and the political
constitution adapted thereto, the very things whose attainment
was the object of the pending struggle in Germany.
To the absolute governments, with their following of parsons,
professors, country squires and officials, it served as a welcome
scarecrow against the threatening bourgeoisie.
It was a sweet finish after the bitter pills of floggings and
bullets with which these same governments, just at that time,
dosed the German working-class risings.
While this "True" Socialism thus served the governments as a
weapon for fighting the German bourgeoisie, it, at the same time,
directly represented a reactionary interest, the interest of the
German Philistines.  In Germany the petty-bourgeois class, a
relic of the sixteenth century, and since then constantly
cropping up again under various forms, is the real social basis
of the existing state of things.
To preserve this class is to preserve the existing state of
things in Germany.  The industrial and political supremacy of the
bourgeoisie threatens it with certain destruction; on the one
hand, from the concentration of capital; on the other, from the
rise of a revolutionary proletariat.  "True" Socialism appeared to
kill these two birds with one stone.  It spread like an epidemic.
The robe of speculative cobwebs, embroidered with flowers
of rhetoric, steeped in the dew of sickly sentiment, this
transcendental robe in which the German Socialists wrapped their
sorry "eternal truths," all skin and bone, served to wonderfully
increase the sale of their goods amongst such a public.  And on
its part, German Socialism recognised, more and more, its own
calling as the bombastic representative of the petty-bourgeois
Philistine.
It proclaimed the German nation to be the model nation, and the
German petty Philistine to be the typical man.  To every
villainous meanness of this model man it gave a hidden, higher,
Socialistic interpretation, the exact contrary of its real
character.  It went to the extreme length of directly opposing
the "brutally destructive" tendency of Communism, and of
proclaiming its supreme and impartial contempt of all class
struggles.  With very few exceptions, all the so-called Socialist
and Communist publications that now (1847) circulate in Germany
belong to the domain of this foul and enervating literature.
2. CONSERVATIVE, OR BOURGEOIS, SOCIALISM
A part of the bourgeoisie is desirous of redressing social
grievances, in order to secure the continued existence of
bourgeois society.
To this section belong economists, philanthropists,
humanitarians, improvers of the condition of the working class,
organisers of charity, members of societies for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, temperance fanatics, hole-and-corner
reformers of every imaginable kind.  This form of Socialism has,
moreover, been worked out into complete systems.
We may cite Proudhon's Philosophie de la Misere as an example of
this form.
The Socialistic bourgeois want all the advantages of modern
social conditions without the struggles and dangers necessarily
resulting therefrom.  They desire the existing state of society
minus its revolutionary and disintegrating elements.  They wish
for a bourgeoisie without a proletariat.  The bourgeoisie
naturally conceives the world in which it is supreme to be the
best; and bourgeois Socialism develops this comfortable
conception into various more or less complete systems.  In
requiring the proletariat to carry out such a system, and thereby
to march straightway into the social New Jerusalem, it but
requires in reality, that the proletariat should remain within
the bounds of existing society, but should cast away all its
hateful ideas concerning the bourgeoisie.
A second and more practical, but less systematic, form of this
Socialism sought to depreciate every revolutionary movement in
the eyes of the working class, by showing that no mere political
reform, but only a change in the material conditions of
existence, in economic relations, could be of any advantage to
them.  By changes in the material conditions of existence, this
form of Socialism, however, by no means understands abolition of
the bourgeois relations of production, an abolition that can be
effected only by a revolution, but administrative reforms, based
on the continued existence of these relations; reforms,
therefore, that in no respect affect the relations between
capital and labour, but, at the best, lessen the cost, and
simplify the administrative work, of bourgeois government.
Bourgeois Socialism attains adequate expression, when, and only
when, it becomes a mere figure of speech.
Free trade: for the benefit of the working class.  Protective
duties: for the benefit of the working class.  Prison Reform: for
the benefit of the working class.  This is the last word and the
only seriously meant word of bourgeois Socialism.
It is summed up in the phrase: the bourgeois is a bourgeois--for
the benefit of the working class.
3.  CRITICAL-UTOPIAN SOCIALISM AND COMMUNISM
We do not here refer to that literature which, in every great
modern revolution, has always given voice to the demands of the
proletariat, such as the writings of Babeuf and others.
The first direct attempts of the proletariat to attain its own
ends, made in times of universal excitement, when feudal society
was being overthrown, these attempts necessarily failed, owing
to the then undeveloped state of the proletariat, as well as to
the absence of the economic conditions for its emancipation,
conditions that had yet to be produced, and could be produced
by the impending bourgeois epoch alone. The revolutionary
literature that accompanied these first movements of the
proletariat had necessarily a reactionary character. It
inculcated universal asceticism and social levelling in its
crudest form.
The Socialist and Communist systems properly so called, those of
Saint-Simon, Fourier, Owen and others, spring into existence in
the early undeveloped period, described above, of the struggle
between proletariat and bourgeoisie (see Section 1. Bourgeois
and Proletarians).
The founders of these systems see, indeed, the class antagonisms, as
well as the action of the decomposing elements, in the prevailing form
of society. But the proletariat, as yet in its infancy, offers to them
the spectacle of a class without any historical initiative or any
independent political movement.
Since the development of class antagonism keeps even pace with
the development of industry, the economic situation, as they find
it, does not as yet offer to them the material conditions for the
emancipation of the proletariat.  They therefore search after a
new social science, after new social laws, that are to create
these conditions.
Historical action is to yield to their personal inventive
action, historically created conditions of emancipation to
fantastic ones, and the gradual, spontaneous class-organisation
of the proletariat to the organisation of society specially
contrived by these inventors.  Future history resolves itself, in
their eyes, into the propaganda and the practical carrying out of
their social plans.
In the formation of their plans they are conscious of caring
chiefly for the interests of the working class, as being the most
suffering class.  Only from the point of view of being the most
suffering class does the proletariat exist for them.
The undeveloped state of the class struggle, as well as their
own surroundings, causes Socialists of this kind to consider
themselves far superior to all class antagonisms.  They want to
improve the condition of every member of society, even that of
the most favoured.  Hence, they habitually appeal to society at
large, without  distinction of class; nay, by preference, to the
ruling class.  For how can people, when once they understand
their system, fail to see in it the best possible plan of the
best possible state of society?
Hence, they reject all political, and especially all
revolutionary, action; they wish to attain their ends by
peaceful means, and endeavour, by small experiments, necessarily
doomed to failure, and by the force of example, to pave the way
for the new social Gospel.
Such fantastic pictures of future society, painted at a time
when the proletariat is still in a very undeveloped state and has
but a fantastic conception of its own position correspond with
the first instinctive yearnings of that class for a general
reconstruction of society.
But these Socialist and Communist publications contain also a
critical element. They attack every principle of existing society.
Hence they are full of the most valuable materials for the
enlightenment of the working class. The practical measures
proposed in them--such as the abolition of the distinction
between town and country, of the family, of the carrying on of
industries for the account of private individuals, and of the wage
system, the proclamation of social harmony, the conversion of the
functions of the State into a mere superintendence of production,
all these proposals, point solely to the disappearance of class
antagonisms which were, at that time, only just cropping up, and
which, in these publications, are recognised in their earliest,
indistinct and undefined forms only. These proposals, therefore,
are of a purely Utopian character.
The significance of Critical-Utopian Socialism and Communism
bears an inverse relation to historical development.  In
proportion as the modern class struggle develops and takes
definite shape, this fantastic standing apart from the contest,
these fantastic attacks on it, lose all practical value and all
theoretical justification.  Therefore, although the originators
of these systems were, in many respects, revolutionary, their
disciples have, in every case, formed mere reactionary sects.
They hold fast by the original views of their masters, in
opposition to the progressive historical development of the
proletariat.  They, therefore, endeavour, and that consistently,
to deaden the class struggle and to reconcile the class antagonisms.
They still dream of experimental realisation of their social
Utopias, of founding isolated "phalansteres," of establishing
"Home Colonies,"  of setting up a "Little Icaria"--duodecimo
editions of the New Jerusalem--and to realise all these castles
in the air, they are compelled to appeal to the feelings and
purses of the bourgeois.  By degrees they sink into the category
of the reactionary conservative Socialists depicted above,
differing from these only by more systematic pedantry, and
by their fanatical and superstitious belief in the miraculous
effects of their social science.
They, therefore, violently oppose all political action on the
part of the working class; such action, according to them, can
only result from blind unbelief in the new Gospel.
The Owenites in England, and the Fourierists in France,
respectively, oppose the Chartists and the Reformistes.
VARIOUS EXISTING OPPOSITION PARTIES
Section II has made clear the relations of the Communists to the
existing working-class parties, such as the Chartists in England
and the Agrarian Reformers in America.
The Communists fight for the attainment of the immediate aims,
for the enforcement of the momentary interests of the working
class; but in the movement of the present, they also represent
and take care of the future of that movement.  In France the
Communists ally themselves with the Social-Democrats, against the
conservative and radical bourgeoisie, reserving, however, the
right to take up a critical position in regard to phrases and
illusions traditionally handed down from the great Revolution.
In Switzerland they support the Radicals, without losing sight
of the fact that this party consists of antagonistic elements,
partly of Democratic Socialists, in the French sense, partly of
radical bourgeois.
In Poland they support the party that insists on an agrarian
revolution as the prime condition for national emancipation, that
party which fomented the insurrection of Cracow in 1846.
In Germany they fight with the bourgeoisie whenever it acts in a
revolutionary way, against the absolute monarchy, the feudal
squirearchy, and the petty bourgeoisie.
But they never cease, for a single instant, to instil into the
working class the clearest possible recognition of the hostile
antagonism between bourgeoisie and proletariat, in order that the
German workers may straightaway use, as so many weapons against
the bourgeoisie, the social and political conditions that the
bourgeoisie must necessarily introduce along with its supremacy,
and in order that, after the fall of the reactionary classes in
Germany, the fight against the bourgeoisie itself may immediately
begin.
The Communists turn their attention chiefly to Germany, because
that country is on the eve of a bourgeois revolution that
is bound to be carried out under more advanced conditions
of European civilisation, and with a much more developed
proletariat, than that of England was in the seventeenth, and of
France in the eighteenth century, and because the bourgeois
revolution in Germany will be but the prelude to an immediately
following proletarian revolution.
In short, the Communists everywhere support every revolutionary
movement against the existing social and political order of
things.
In all these movements they bring to the front, as the leading
question in each, the property question, no matter what its
degree of development at the time.
Finally, they labour everywhere for the union and agreement of
the democratic parties of all countries.
The Communists disdain to conceal their views and aims.
They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by
the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions.
Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution.
The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains.
They have a world to win.
It takes a big man to cry, but it takes a bigger man to
laugh at that man. If you ever fall off the Sears Tower, just go real limp,
because maybe you'll look like a dummy and people will try
to catch you because, hey, free dummy. If a kid asks where rain comes from, I think a cute thing to
tell him is "God is crying." and if he asks why God is
crying, another cute thing to tell him is "probably because
of something you did". To me, boxing is like a ballet, except there's no music, no
choreography, and the dancers hit each other. If trees could scream, would we be so cavalier about cutting
them down?  We might, if they screamed all the time, for no
good reason. Better not take a dog on the Space Shuttle, because if he
sticks his head out when you're coming home his face might burn
up. To me, clowns aren't funny.  In fact, they're kinda scary.
I've wondered where this started, and I think it goes back to
the time I went to the circus and a clown killed my dad. I'd like to see a nude opera, because when they hit those
high notes, I'll bet you can really see it in those
genitals. Contrary to popular belief, the most dangerous animal in the
world is not the lion or the tiger or even the elephant.  The
most dangerous animal is a shark riding on an elephant, just
trampling and eating everything they see. As we were driving, we saw a sign that said "Watch for Rocks".
Marta said it should read "Watch for PRETTY Rocks".  I told
her she should write in her suggestion to the highway department,
but she started saying it was a joke -- just to get out of
writing a simple letter!  And I thought I was lazy! As I bit into the nectarine, it had a crisp, juiciness about
it that was very pleasurable -- until I realized it wasn't
a nectarine at all, but a HUMAN HEAD!! Once, when I was in Hawaii, on the island of Kauai, I met a
mysterious old stranger.  He said he was about to die and
wanted to tell someone about the treasure.  I said, "Okay, as
long as it's not a long story.  Some of us have a plane to catch,
you know.".  He started telling his story, about the treasure and
his life and all, and I thought:  "This story isn't too long.".
But then, he kept going, and I started thinking, "Uh-oh, this
story is getting long.".  But then, the story was over, and I said
to myself:  "You know, that story wasn't too long after all.".
I forget what the story was about, but there was a good movie on
the plane.  It was a little long, though. If you ever teach a yodeling class, probably the hardest thing is
to keep the students from just trying to yodel right off.  You see,
we BUILD to that. Is there anything more beautiful than a beautiful, beautiful
flamingo, flying across in front of a beautiful sunset?  And he's
carrying a beautiful rose in his beak, and also he's carrying a
very beautiful painting with his feet.  And also, you're drunk. I guess of all my uncles, I like Uncle Cave Man the best.  We called
hum Uncle Cave Man because he lived in a cave and because sometimes
he'd eat one of us.  Later on we found out he was a bear. Anytime I see something screech across a room and latch onto
someone's neck and the guy screams and tries to get it off,
I have to laugh, because what IS that thing? In weightlifting, I don't think sudden, uncontrolled urination
should automatically disqualify you. If you're a horse, and someone gets on you and falls off, and then
gets right back on you, I think you should buck him off right away. If you define cowardice as running away at the first sign of danger,
screaming and tripping and begging for mercy, then yes,
Mister Brave Man, I guess I am a coward. The memories of my family outings are still a source of
strength to me.  I remember we'd all pile into the car -- I
forget what kind it was -- and drive and drive.  I'm not
sure where we'd go, but I think there were some trees there.
The smell of something was strong in the air as we played
whatever sport we played.  I remember a bigger, older guy we
called "Dad".  We would eat some stuff, or not, and then I
think we went home.  I guess some things never leave you. Blow ye winds, like the trumpet blows, but without that noise. I wish a robot would get elected president.  That way, when
he came to town, we could all take a shot at him and not
feel too bad. He was a cowboy, mister, and he loved the land.  He loved it so
much he made a woman out of dirt and married her.  But when he
kissed her, she disintegrated.  Later, at the funeral, when the
preacher said "Dust to dust", some people laughed, and the
cowboy shot them.  At his hanging, he told the others, "I'll be
waiting for you in heaven -- with a gun.". When the age of the Vikings came to a close, they must have sensed
it.  Probably, they gathered together one evening, slapped each
other on the back and said, "Hey, good job.". If you go parachuting, and your parachute doesn't open, and
your friends are all watching you fall, I think a funny gag
would be to pretend you're swimming. Sometimes when I feel like killing someone, I do a little
trick to calm myself down.  I'll go over to the person's
house and ring the doorbell.  When the person comes to the
door, I'm gone.  But you know what I've left on the porch?
A jack-o-lantern with a knife stuck in the side of its head
with a note that says "You".  After that, I usually feel a
whole lot better, and no harm done. I can still recall old Mister Barnslow getting out every morning
and nailing a fresh load of tadpoles to that old board of his.
Then he'd spin it round and round, like a wheel of fortune, and
no matter where it stopped he'd yell out, "Tadpoles!  Tadpoles is
a winner!".  We all thought he was crazy.  But then, we had some
growing up to do. The face of a child can say it all, especially the mouth part of
the face. If I ever opened a trampoline store, I don't think I'd call it
Trampo-Land, because you might think it was a store for tramps,
which is not the impression we are trying to convey with our store.
On the other hand, we would not prohibit tramps from browsing, or
testing the trampolines, unless a tramps gyrations seemed to be
getting out of control. I wish I had a kryptonite cross, because then you could keep
both Dracula AND Superman away. Too bad you can't just grab a tree by the very tiptop and bend it
clear over to the ground and then let her fly, because I'll bet
you'd be amazed at all the stuff that comes flying out. I remember that fateful day when Coach took me aside.  I knew what
was coming.  "You don't have to tell me.", I said.  "I'm off the
team, aren't I.".  "Well,", said Coach, "you were never really ON
the team.  You made that uniform you're wearing out of rags and
towels, and your helmet is a toy space helmet.  You show up at
practice and then either steal the ball and make us chase you to
get it back, or you try to tackle people at inappropriate times.".
It was all true what he was saying.  And yet, I thought,
something is brewing inside the head of the Coach.  He sees
something in me, some kind of raw talent that he can mold.  But
that's when I felt the handcuffs go on. If you saw two guys named Hambone and Flippy, which one would you
think liked dolphins the most?  I'd say Flippy, wouldn't you?
You'd be wrong though.  It's Hambone. When I heard that trees grow a new "ring" for each year they live,
I thought, we humans are like that:  we grow a new layer of skin
each year, and after many years we are thick and unwieldy from all
our skin layers. Laurie got offended that I used the word "puke", but to me,
that's what her dinner tasted like. If you're in a boxing match, try not to let the other guy's glove
touch your lips, because you don't know where that glove has been. It's too bad that whole families have to be torn apart by
something as simple as wild dogs. Marta says the interesting thing about fly fishing is that it's two
lives connected by a thin strand.  Come on, Marta.  Grow up. The old pool shooter had won many a game in his life.  But now it was
time to hang up the cue.  When he did, all the other cues came
crashing to the floor.  "Sorry," he said with a smile. If I ever do a book on the Amazon, I hope I am able to bring a
certain lightheartedness to the subject, in a way that tells the
reader we are going to have fun with this thing. Even though he was an enemy of mine, I had to admit that what he had
accomplished was a brilliant piece of strategy.  First, he punched
me, then he kicked me, then he punched me again. If you're at a Thanksgiving dinner, but you don't like the
stuffing, or the cranberry sauce, or anything else, just
pretend you're eating it, but instead, put it into your lap
and form it into a big, mushy ball.  Then later, when you're
out back having cigars with the boys, let out a big fake cough
and throw the ball to the ground.  Then say "Boy, these are
good cigars.". Most people don't realize that large pieces of coral, which
have been painted brown and attached to the skull with
common wood screws, can make a child look like a deer. The sound of fresh rain run-off splashing from the roof
reminded me of the sound of urine splashing into a filthy
Texaco latrine. I think somebody should come up with a way to breed a very
large shrimp.  That way, you could ride him, then, after you
camped at night, you could eat him.  How about it, science? When you go in for a job interview, I think a good thing to ask
is if they ever press charges. I bet the main reason the police keep people away from a plane
crash is they don't want anybody walking in and lying down in the
crash stuff, then when somebody comes up act like they just woke
up and go, "What was THAT?!" I scrambled to the top of the precipice where Nick was waiting.
"That was fun," I said.  "You bet it was," said Nick, "Let's
climb higher."  "No," I said, "I think we should be heading back
now."  "We have time," Nick insisted.  I said we didn't and Nick
said we did.  We argued back and forth like that for about twenty
minutes, then decided to go back.  I didn't say it was an
interesting story. If you're a young Mafia gangster out on your first date, I
bet it's really embarrassing if someone tries to kill you. Some folks say it was a miracle.  Saint Francis suddenly appeared
and knocked the next pitch clean over the fence.  But I think it
was just a lucky swing. Too bad there's not such a thing as a GOLDEN skunk, because
you'd probably be too PROUD to be sprayed by one. I bet one legend that keeps recurring throughout history, in
every culture, is the story of Popeye. To me, truth is not some vague, foggy notion.  Truth is real.
And, at the same time, unreal.  Fiction and fact and everything
in between, plus some things I can't remember, all rolled into
one big "thing".  This is truth, to me. When I see an old lady slip and fall on a wet sidewalk, my
first instinct is to laugh. But then I think, what if I
was an ant, and she fell on me, then it wouldn't be quite
so funny. You know what would make a good story?  Something about a clown
who makes people happy, but inside he's real sad.  Also, he has
severe diarrhea. I bet a fun thing would be to go way back in time to where there
was going to be and eclipse and tell the cave men, "If I have come
to destroy you, may the sun be blotted out from the sky."  Just
then the eclipse would start, and they'd probably try to kill you
or something, but then you could explain about the rotation of the
moon and all, and everybody would get a good laugh. We used to laugh at Grandpa when he'd head off and go
fishing.  But we wouldn't be laughing that evening when he'd
come back with some whore he picked up in town. I think in one of my previous lives I was a mighty king, because
I like people to do what I say. Today I accidentally stepped on a snail on the sidewalk in
front of our house.  And I thought, I too am like that
snail.  I build a defensive wall around myself, a "shell" if
you will.  But my shell isn't made out of a hard, protective
substance.  Mine is made out of tin foil and paper bags. A man doesn't automatically get my respect.  He has to get
down in the dirt and beg for it. One thing kids like is to be tricked.  For instance, I was
going to take my little nephew to Disneyland, but instead, I
drove him to an old burned out warehouse.  "Oh, no," I
said, "Disneyland burned down.".  He cried and cried, but I
think that deep down, he thought it was a pretty good joke.
I started to drive over to the real Disneyland, but it was
getting pretty late. As the evening sky faded from a salmon color to a sort of
flint gray, I thought back to the salmon I caught that
morning, and how gray he was, and how I named him "Flint". If you're ever stuck in some deep undergrowth, in your underwear,
don't stop and start thinking of what other words have "under" in
them, because that's probably the first sign of jungle madness. Sometimes the beauty of the world is so overwhelming, I just want
to throw back my head and gargle.  Just gargle and gargle, and I
don't care who hears me, because I am beautiful. Fear can sometimes be a useful emotion.  For instance, let's say
you're and astronaut on the moon and you fear that your partner
has been turned into Dracula.  The next time he goes out for the
moon pieces, wham!, you just slam the door behind him and blast
off.  He might call you on the radio and say he's not Dracula,
but you just say, "Think again, bat man." I wish scientists would come up with a way to make dogs a
lot bigger, but with a smaller head.  That way, they would
still be good as watchdogs, but they wouldn't eat so much. I bet for an Indian, shooting an old fat pioneer woman in the
back with an arrow, and she fires her shotgun into the ground
as she falls over, is like the top thing you can do. I think a good movie would be about a guy who's a brain scientist,
but he gets hit on the head and it damages the part of the brain
that makes you want to study the brain. I wouldn't be surprised if someday some fishermen caught a big
shark and cut it open, and there inside was a whole person.  Then
they cut the person open, and in him is a little baby shark.  And
in the baby shark there isn't a person, because it would be too
small.  But there's a little doll or something, like a Johnny Combat
little toy guy -- something like that. It makes me mad when I go to all the trouble of having Marta
cook up about a hundred drumsticks, then the guy at
Marineland says "You can't throw that chicken to the
dolphins.  They eat fish.".  Sure they eat fish, if that's
all you give them.  Man, wise up. If the Vikings were around today, they would probably be amazed
at how much glow-in-the-dark stuff we have, and how we take so
much of it for granted. We tend to scoff at the beliefs of the ancients.  But we can't scoff
at them personally, to their faces, and this is what annoys me. It's not good to let any kid near a container that has a skull and
crossbones on it, because there might be a skeleton costume inside
and the kid could put it on and really scare you. If you had a school for professional fireworks people, I don't think
you could cover fuses in just one class.  It's just too rich a subject. People think it would be fun to be a bird because you could fly.
But they forget the negative side, which is the preening. If I lived back in the Wild West days, instead of carrying a six-gun
in my holster, I'd carry a soldering iron.  That way, if some
smart-aleck cowboy said something like "Hey, look.  He's carrying a
soldering iron!" and started laughing, and everybody else started
laughing, I could just say, "That's right, it's a soldering iron.
The soldering iron of justice."  Then everybody would get real quiet
and ashamed, because they made fun of the soldering iron of justice,
and I could probably hit them up for a free drink. When I think back on all the blessings in my life, I can't think
of a single one, unless you count that rattlesnake that granted me
all those wishes. I hope in the future Americans are thought of as a warlike, vicious
people, because I bet a lot of high schools would pick "Americans"
as their mascot. Sometimes I think the world has gone completely mad.  I think,
"Aw, who cares?"  And then I think, "Hey, what's for supper?" If you ever discover that what you're seeing is a play within a
play, just slow down, take a deep breath, and hold on for the ride
of your life. I can see why it would be prohibited to throw most things off the
top of the Empire State Building, but what's wrong with little bits
of cheese?  They probably break down into their various gases
before they even hit. If you're a circus clown, and you have a dog that you use in your
act, I don't think it's a good idea to also dress the dog up like a
clown, because people see that and they think, "Forgive me, but
that's just too much." Here's a good joke to do during an earthquake:  straddle a big
crack in the ground, and if it opens wider, go "Whoa!  Whoa!" and
flail your arms around, like you're going to fall in. If you ever go temporarily insane, don't shoot somebody, like a
lot of people do.  Instead, try to get some weeding done, because
you'd really be surprised. It makes me mad when people say I turned and ran like a
scared rabbit.  Maybe it was like an angry rabbit, who was
running to go fight in another fight, away from the first
fight. I hope if dogs ever take over the world and they choose a
king, they just don't go by size, because I bet there are
some Chihuahuas with some good ideas. I think a good way to get into a movie is to show up where
they're making the movie, then stick a big cactus plant onto
your buttocks and start yowling and running around.  Everyone
would think it was funny and the head movie guy would say,
"Hey, let's put him in the movie." What is it that makes a complete stranger dive into an icy
river to save a solid gold baby?  Maybe we'll never know. Instead of having "answers" on a math test, they should just
call them "impressions", and if you got a different
"impression", so what, can't we all be brothers? If God dwells inside us, like some people say, I sure hope he
likes enchiladas, because that's what He's getting! Probably to a shark, about the funniest thing there is a
wounded seal, trying to swim to shore, because WHERE DOES HE
THINK HE'S GOING?! Perhaps, if I am very lucky, the feeble efforts of my lifetime
will someday be noticed and maybe, in some small way, they will
be acknowledged as the greatest works of genius ever created
by Man. Children need encouragement, so if a kid gets and answer
right, tell him it was a lucky guess.  That way, he develops
a good lucky feeling. Maybe in order to understand mankind, we have to look at the
word itself.  Mankind.  Basically, it's made up of two
separate words -- "mank" and "ind".  What do these words mean?
It's a mystery, and that's why so is mankind. If you ever drop your keys into a river of molten lava, let 'em
go, because, man, they're gone. I think a good novel would be where a bunch of men on a ship are
looking for a whale.  They look and look, but you know what?
They never find him.  And you know why they never find him?
It doesn't say.  The book leaves it up to you, the reader, to
decide.  Then, at the very end, there's a page you can lick and
it tastes like Kool-Aid. Marta talks about sensuality, but I don't think she'd know
sensuality if it bit her on the ass. It's easy to sit there and say you'd like to have more money.
And I guess that's what I like about it.  It's easy.  Just
sitting there, rocking back and forth, wanting that money. I think a good gift for the President would be a chocolate revolver.
And since he's so busy, you'd probably have to run up to him real
quick and hand it to him. Whether they find life there or not, I think Jupiter should be
considered an enemy planet. If you lived in the Dark Ages, and you were a catapult operator,
I bet the most common question people would ask is, "Can't you
make it shoot farther?"  No.  I'm sorry.  That's as far as it shoots. Why is it that we laugh at a man in a clown outfit, but we won't
laugh at a man just walking down the street carrying a clown
outfit in one of those plastic dry-cleaner bags? Probably the earliest fly-swatters were nothing more than some
sort of striking surface attached to the end of a long stick. Instead of trying to build newer and bigger weapons of
destruction, mankind should think about getting more use out of
the weapons we already have. The crows seemed to be calling his name, thought Caw. If you go flying back through time, and you see someone else
flying into the future, it's probably best to avoid eye contact. To me, it's a good idea to always carry two sacks of something when
you walk around.  That way, if anybody says, "Hey can you give me
a hand?" you can say, "Sorry, got these sacks." Whenever someone asks me to define love, I usually think for a
minute, then I spin around and pin the guy's arm behind his back.
Now who's asking the questions? I remember we were all horrified to see Grandpa up on the roof
with his Superman cape on.  "Get down!" yelled Uncle Lou.  "Don't
move!" screamed Grandma.  But Grandpa wouldn't listen.  He walked
to the edge of the roof and stuck out his arms, like he was going
to fly.  I forget what happened after that. If you ever catch on fire, try to avoid seeing yourself in the
mirror, because I'll bet that's what really throws you into a panic. I wish my name was Todd, because then I could say, "Yes, my name's
Todd.  Todd Blankenship."  Oh, also I wish my last name was
Blankenship. If you're an ant, and you're walking across the top of a cup of
pudding, you probably have no idea that the only thing between you
and disaster is the strength of the pudding skin. Dad always thought laughter was the best medicine, which I guess was
why several of us died of tuberculosis. I don't think God put me on this planet to judge others.  I think
he put me on this planet to gather specimens and take them back to
my home planet. Just because swans mate for life, I don't think it's that big of a deal.
First of all, if you're a swan, you're probably not going to find a
swan that looks that much better than the one you've got, so why not
mate for life? If you're robbing a bank, and your pants suddenly fall down, I think
it's okay to laugh, and to let the hostages laugh, too, because come
on, life is funny. Just as bees swarm about to protect their nest, so will I "swarm about"
to protect my nest of chocolate eggs. If you were a gladiator in olden days, I bet the inefficiency of
how the gladiator fights were organized and scheduled would just
drive you up a wall. Sometimes I think I'd be better off dead.  No, wait.  Not me, you. Something tells me that the first mousetrap wasn't designed to
catch mice at all, but to protect little cheese "gems" from burglars. I can't stand cheap people.  It makes me real mad when someone
says something like "hey, when are you going to pay me that
hundred dollars you owe me?" or "Do you have that fifty dollars
you borrowed?"  Man, quit being so cheap. You can't tell me that cowboys, when they're branding cattle, don't
sort of "accidentally" brand each other every once in a while.
It's their way of letting off stress. One day one of my little nephews came up to me and asked me if
the equator was a real line that went around the earth, or just
and imaginary one.  I had to laugh.  Laugh and laugh.  Because I
didn't know, and I thought that maybe by laughing he would forget
what he asked me. If I come back as an animal in my next lifetime, I hope it's
some type of parasite, because this is the part where I take
it easy! I think the mistake a lot of us make is thinking the state-appointed
psychiatrist is our "friend". When you first start wearing a turban, probably the most common
mistake is wrapping it too tight.  You have to allow the head to
breathe. If you go through a lot of hammers each month, I don't think it
necessarily means you're a hard worker.  It may just mean that
you have a lot to learn about proper hammer maintenance. When people say that the desert is lifeless, it just makes me
want to grab them by the collar and yell, "Why you stupid, stupid
bastard!"  Then I drive them out into the desert to where the circus
is, and point out the many forms of zebra and clown life. If there was a big gardening convention, and you got up and gave a
speech in favor of fast-motion gardening, I bet you would get booed
right off the stage.  They're just not ready. We like to praise birds for flying.  But how much of it is actually
flying, and how much of it is just sort of coasting from the
previous flap? Instead of raising your hand to ask a question in class, how about
individual push buttons on each desk?  That way, when you want to
ask a question, you just push the button and it lights up a
corresponding number on a tote board at the front of the class.
Then all the professor has to do is check the lighted number
against a master sheet of names and numbers to see who is asking
the question. If you're a boxing referee, it's probably illegal to wear a bow tie
that spins or changes colors. You know something that would really make me applaud?  A guy gets
stuck in quicksand, then sinks, then suddenly comes shooting out,
riding on water skis!  How do they do that?! Whether they live in an igloo or a grass shack or wood hut, people
around the world all want the same thing:  a better house. When you're going up the stairs and you take a step, kick the other
leg up high behind you to keep people from following too close. When Rick told me he was having trouble with his wife, I had to
laugh.  Not because of what he said, but because of a joke I thought
of.  I told him the joke, but he didn't laugh very much.  Some friend
he is. If you ever reach total enlightenment while you're drinking a beer,
I bet it makes beer shoot out your nose. Love is not something you can put chains on and throw into a lake.
That's called Houdini.  Love is liking someone a lot. If I was being executed by injection, I'd clean up my cell real neat.
Then, when they came to get me, I'd say, "Injection?  I thought you
said 'inspection.'"  They'd probably feel real bad, and maybe I
could get out of it. I'm not afraid of insects taking over the world, and you know why?
It would take about a billion ants just to aim a gun at me, let
alone fire it.  And you know what I'm doing while they're aiming it
at me?  I just sort of slip off to the side, and then suddenly run up
and kick the gun out of their hands. I believe in making the world safe for our children, but not for out
children's children, because I don't think children should be
having sex. If you're a blacksmith, probably the proudest day of your life is when
you get your first anvil.  How innocent you are, little blacksmith. What am I afraid of?  I'll tell you:  a feather.  That's right, a
feather.  How could anyone be afraid of a feather, you say.  That's
and honest question, and I'll try to give it an honest answer.
First of all, did I say it was a poison feather? When you die, if you get a choice between going to regular heaven
or pie heaven, choose pie heaven.  It might be a trick, but if it's
not, ummmm, boy. Of all the warning sounds that animals make, I think the one that's
the least effective on me is a kind of clicking noise. I bet a funny thing about driving a car off a cliff is, while
you're in midair, you still hit those brakes!  Hey, better try
the emergency brake! I wish there was a disease where you're afraid of clouds, because I
think I could cure it.  First, you sit the patient down and have a long
personal talk.  After that, I'm not sure, but maybe you could throw
some water in his face or something. As the light changed from red to green to yellow and back to red again,
I sat there thinking about life.  Was it nothing more than a bunch of
honking and yelling?  Sometimes it seemed that way. How come the dove gets to be the peace symbol?  How about the pillow?
It has more feathers than the dove, and it doesn't have the dangerous beak. Even though I was their captive, the Indians allowed me quite a bit of
freedom.  I could walk about freely, make my own meals, and even hurl
large rocks at their heads.  It was only later that I discovered they
were not Indians at all, but dirty clothes hampers. If life deals you lemons, why not go kill someone with the lemons (maybe
by shoving them down his throat)? I wish outer-space guys would conquer Earth and make people their pets,
because I'd like to have one of those little basket-beds with my name
on it. I think Superman and Santa Claus are actually the same guy, and I'll
tell you why:  Both fly, both wear red, and both have a beard. Frank knew that no man had ever crossed the desert on foot and lived to
tell about it.  So, he decided to get back in his car and keep driving. Its true that every time you hear a bell, an angel gets his wings.
But what they don't tell you is, every time you hear a mousetrap snap,
an angel gets set on fire. If I was a father in a waiting room, and the nurse came out and said,
"Congratulations, it's a girl,"  I think a good gag would be to get
real mad and yell, "A girl?!  You must have mixed me up with that dork!"
and point to another father. I bet what happened was, they discovered fire and invented the wheel on
the same day.  Then, that night, they burned the wheel. The wise man can pick up a grain of sand and envision a whole universe.
But the stupid man will just lay down on some seaweed and roll around
until he's completely draped in it.  Then he'll stand up and go,
"Hey, I'm Vine Man." I remember how, in college, I got that part-time job as a circus clown,
and how the children would laugh and laugh at me.  I vowed, then and
there, that I would get revenge. If I could be a bird, I think I'd be a penguin, because I could walk
around on two feet with a lot of other guys like me. The big, huge meteor headed toward the Earth.  Could nothing stop it?
Maybe Bob could.  He was suddenly on top of the meteor -- through
some kind of space warp or something.  "Go, Bob, go!" yelled one of
the generals.  "Give me that!" said the big-guy general as he took
the microphone away.  "Listen, Bob," he said.  "You've got to steer
that meteor away from Earth."  "Yes, but how?" thought Bob.  Then he got
an idea.  Right next to him there was a steering wheel sticking out of
the meteor. If I come back as a horsefly, I think my favorite thing would be to land
on someone's lip.  Even if they smash you, ick!, you're all over their lip. I think a new, different kind of bowling should be "carpet bowling."
It's just like regular bowling, only the lanes are carpet instead of
wood.  I don't know why we should do this, but my God, we've got to
try something! Isn't it funny how whenever we go to a county fair or a state fair,
the first thing we do is see if they have some kind of pornography booth. A quiz:  If I am my brother's brother, who am I?  (Answer:  me.) People laugh when I say that I think a jellyfish is one of the most
beautiful things in the world.  What they don't understand is, I mean
a jellyfish with long, blond hair. If you want to be the popular one at a party, here's a good thing to do:
Go up to some people who are talking and laughing and say, "Well,
technically that's illegal."  It might fit in with what somebody just
said.  And even if it doesn't, so what, I hate this stupid party. To us, it might look like just a rag.  But to the brave, embattled
men of the fort, it was more than that.  It was a flag of surrender.
And after that, it was torn up and used for shoe-shine rags, so the
men would look nice for the surrender. It's easy to sit and scoff at an old man's folly.  But also, check
out his Adam's apple! I think one way police departments could make some money would be
to hold a yard sale of murder weapons.  Many people, for example,
could probably use a cheap ice pick. I hope they never find out that lightning has a lot of vitamins
in it, because do you hide from it or not? There are many stages in a man's life.  In the first stage, he is
young and eager, like a beaver.  In the second stage, he wants to
build things, like dams, and maybe chew down some trees.  In the
third stage, he feels trapped, and then "skinned."  I'm not sure
what the fourth stage is. I wish I would have a real tragic love affair, and get so bummed
out that I'd just quit my job and become a bum for a few years,
because I was thinking about doing that anyway. If aliens from outer space ever come and we show them our
civilization and they make fun of it, we should say we were
just kidding, that this isn't really our civilization, but
a gag we hoped they would like.  Then we tell them to come
back in twenty years to see our real civilization.  After that,
we start a crash program of coming up with an impressive new
civilization.  Either that, or just shoot down the aliens as
they're waving goodbye. Like jewels in a crown, the precious stones glittered in the
queen's round metal hat. I wish I could sink down to the size of an ant.  And maybe there
would be thousands of other people shrunken down to ant size, and
we would get together and dig tunnels down into the ground, and
live there.  But don't ever call us "ants," because we hate that. If you're traveling in a time machine, and you're eating corn on the cob,
I don't think it's going to affect things one way or the other.  But
here's the point I'm trying to make:  Corn on the cob is good, isn't it. I bet if you were a mummy wrapper in ancient Egypt, one thing you
would constantly find yourself telling people would be,  "Be sure,
before I start, you have all the jewelry and so forth on the body,
because I am not unwrapping him later." If you're ever selling your house, and some people come by, and a big
rat comes out and he's dragging the rattrap because it didn't quite
kill him, just tell the people he's your pet and that's a trick you
taught him. If I had the time to sit down and write a thank-you note to everyone
who sent me a nice, expensive present, what a wonderful world that
would be! You know one thing that will really make a woman mad?  Just run
up and kick her in the butt.  (P.S.  This also works with men.) It seemed to me that, somehow, the blue jay was trying to communicate
with me.  I would see him fly into the house across the way, pick up
the telephone, and dial.  My phone would ring, and it would be him,
but it was just this squawking and cheeping.  "What?!  What?!" I
would yell back, but he never did speak English. If you're in a war, instead of throwing a hand grenade at some guys,
throw one of those little baby-type pumpkins.  Maybe it'll make everyone
think of how crazy war is, and while they're thinking, you can throw
a real grenade. I hope life isn't a big joke, because I don't get it. I guess we were all guilty, in a way.  We all shot him, we all
skinned him, and we all got a complimentary bumper sticker that said,
"I helped skin Bob." Ambition is like a frog sitting on a Venus Flytrap.  The flytrap can
bite and bite, but it won't bother the frog because it only has
little tiny plant teeth.  But some other stuff could happen and it
could be like ambition. I'd rather be rich than stupid. If you were a poor Indian with no weapons, and a bunch of conquistadors
came up to you and asked where the gold was, I don't think it would be
a good idea to say, "I swallowed it.  So sue me." I think someone should have had the decency to tell me the luncheon was
free.  To make someone run out with potato salad in his hand, pretending
he's throwing up, is not what I call hospitality. I think people tend to forget that trees are living creatures.  They're
sort of like dogs.  Huge, quiet, motionless dogs, with bark instead of fur. If they ever come up with a swashbuckling School, I think one of the courses
should be Laughing, Then Jumping Off Something. When you're riding in a time machine way far into the future, don't
stick your
elbow out the window, or it'll turn into a fossil. At first I thought, if I were Superman, a perfect secret identity would be
"Clark Kent, Dentist," because you could save money on tooth X-rays. But then
I thought, if a patient said, "How's my back tooth?" and you just looked
at it
with your X-ray vision and said, "Oh it's okay," then the patient would
probably say, "Aren't you going to take an X-ray, stupid?" and you'd say, "Aw
fuck you, get outta here," and then he probably wouldn't even pay his bill. A good way to threaten somebody is to light a stick of dynamite. Then
you call
the guy and hold the burning fuse up to the phone. "Hear that?" you say.
"That's dynamite, baby." Why do people in ship mutinies always ask for "better treatment"? I'd ask for
a pinball machine, because with all that rocking back and forth you'd
probably
be able to get a lot of free games. I'd like to be buried Indian-style, where they put you up on a high rack,
above the ground. That way, you could get hit by meteorites and not even feel
it. I bet when the neanderthal kids would make a snowman, someone would
always end
up saying, "Don't forget the thick, heavy brows." Then they would all get
embarrassed because they remembered they had the big hunky brows too, and
they'd get mad and eat the snowman. Too bad you can't buy a voodoo globe so that you could make the earth spin
real fast and freak everybody out. The people in the village were real poor, so none of the children had any
toys. But this one little boy had gotten an old enema bag and filled it with
rocks, and he would go around and whap the other children across the
face with
it. Man, I think my heart almost broke.
Later the boy came up and offered to give me the toy. This was too much! I
reached out my hand, but then he ran away. I chased him down and took the
enema bag. He cried a little, but that's the way of these people. I don't think I'm alone when I say I'd like to see more and more planets fall
under the ruthless domination of our solar system. I wonder if Dracula ever has ticks. When this girl at the art museum asked me whom I liked better, Monet or
Manet,
I said, "I like mayonnaise." She just stared at me, so I said it again,
louder. Then she left. I guess she went to try to find some mayonnaise
for me. He was a spy, all right, and he knew it. He would walk into a room and people
would go, "Who the fuck is that guy, a spy?" He'd laugh to himself,
maybe pull
out his gun and show it to the person, to kind of impress him (but not
to show
off).
Sometimes spying was dirty work. Sometimes he'd kill a guy, then paint a
clown face on his face. Nobody said he had to do that, but he did it anyway.
So, dirty work. I bet it's hard to break farmers of the old superstitions like "Tornado got
Old Yeller, stay in the cellar." I don't guess I've ever been as scared as when I was waiting in the
principal's office. Finally he came in and sat down. He didn't say anything,
he just looked at me. Then he pulled a copy of Playboy out. "Is this yours?"
he said.
"No," I said, "is this yours?" And I pulled out my penis.
I guess I wasn't as scared as I thought. If Alien was my friend, I'd like to be with him when he went to the dentist.
When they started drilling, he'd probably go nuts and start eating everybody.
That Alien! Why do there have to be rules for everything? It's gotten to the point that
rules dominate just about every aspect of our lives. In fact, it might
be said
that rules have become the foot-long sticks of mankind. I hate it when people say somebody has a "speech impediment", even if he
does,
because it could hurt his feelings. So instead, I call it a "speech
improvement", and I go up to the guy and say, "Hey, Bob, I like your speech
improvement." I think this makes him feel better. Many people think that history is a dull subject. Dull? Is it "dull" that
Jesse James once got bitten on the forehead by an ant, and at first it didn't
seem like anything, but then the bite got worse and worse, so he went to a
doctor in town, and the secretary told him to wait, so he sat down and
waited,
and waited, and waited, and waited, and then finally he got to see the
doctor,
and the doctor put some salve on it? You call that dull? I think one reason I could be a good playboy is I would be willing to spend
the time required to really fix up my "pad". Of all the tall tales, I think my favorite is the one about Eli Whitney and
the interchangeable parts. If there was a terrible storm outside, but somehow this dog lived through the
storm, and he showed up at your door when the storm was finally over, I think
a good name for him would be Carl. If I had a mine shaft, I don't think I would just abandon it. There's got to
be a better way. I think man invented the car by instinct. I guess I kinda lost control, because in the middle of the play I ran up and
lit the evil puppet villain on fire.
No, I didn't. Just kidding. I just said that to help illustrate one of the
human emotions, which is freaking out. Another emotion is greed, as when you
kill someone for money, or something like that. Another emotion is
generosity,
as when you pay someone double what he paid for his stupid puppet. I think there should be something in science called the "reindeer effect." I
don't know what it would be, but I think it'd be good to hear someone say,
"Gentlemen, what we have here is a terrifying example of the reindeer
effect." I saw on this nature show how the male elk douses himself with urine to smell
sweeter to the opposite sex. What a coincidence! I think it's high time we started questioning the old cliches like "Grunt big
for Daddy." Anybody who has an identity problem had better wise up and get with the
program! Tonight, when we were eating dinner, Marta said something that really knocked
me for a loop. She said, "I love carrots."
"Good," I said as I gritted my teeth real hard. "Then maybe you and
carrots
would like to go into the bedroom and have sex!"
They didn't, but maybe they will sometime, and I can watch. I think they should continue the policy of not giving a Nobel Prize for
paneling. One question that's never been answered to my satisfaction by the "Playboy
Advisor" is "What kind of stereo system works best in hell?" A funny thing to do is, if you're out hiking and your friend gets bitten by a
poisonous snake, tell him you're going to go for help, then go about ten feet
and pretend that *you* got bit by a snake. Then start an argument with him
about who's going to go get help. A lot of guys will start crying. That's why
it makes you feel good when you tell them it was just a joke. Folks still remember the day ole Bob Riley came bouncing down that dirt road
in his pickup. Pretty soon, it was bouncing higher and higher. The tires
popped, and the shocks broke, but that truck kept bouncing. Some say it
bounced clean over the moon, but whoever says that is a goddamn liar. Just as irrigation is the lifeblood of the Southwest, lifeblood is the
soup of
cannibals. In some places it's known as a tornado. In others, a cyclone. And in still
others, the Idiot's Merry-go-round. But around here they'll always be
known as
screw-boys. I wish I lived back in the old west days, because I'd save up my money for
about twenty years so I could buy a solid-gold pick. Then I'd go out West and
start digging for gold. When someone came up and asked what I was doing, I'd
say, "Looking for gold, ya durn fool." He'd say, "Your pick is gold," and I'd
say, "Well, that was easy."
Good joke, huh. I think a good product would be "Baby Duck Hat". It's a fake baby duck, which
you strap on top of your head. Then you go swimming underwater until you find
a mommy duck and her babies, and you join them. Then, all of a sudden, you
stand up out of the water and roar like Godzilla. Man, those ducks
really take
off!
Also, Baby Duck Hat is good for parties. Laugh, clown, laugh. This is what I tell myself whenever I dress up like
Bozo. Any man, in the right situation, is capable of murder. But not any man is
capable of being a good camper. So, murder and camping are not as similar as
you might think. The prince decided he would learn anger. So he gathered his subjects together
outside his balcony. "Who would teach me anger?" he said.
"Fuck you!" somebody yelled.
"Okay, how about algebra?" said the prince. If you go to a party, and you want to be the popular one at the party, do
this: Wait until no one is looking, then kick a burning log out of the
fireplace onto the carpet. Then jump on top of it with your body and yell,
"Log o' fire! Log o' fire!"
I've never done this, but I think it'd work. As the snow started to fall, he tugged his coat tighter around himself. Too
tight, as it turned out.
"This is the fourth coat crushing this year", said the sergeant as he
outlined the body with a special pencil that writes on snow. I read that when the archaeologists dug down into the ancient cemetary, they
found fragments of *human bones*! What kind of barbarians were these people,
anyway? I'll be the first to admit that my idea of God is pretty different. I believe
in a God with a long white beard, a gold crown, and a long robe with lots of
shiny jewels on it. He sits on a big throne in the clouds, and He's
about five
hundred feet tall. He talks in a real deep voice like "I...AM...GOD!" He can
blow up stuff just by looking at it.
This is my own, personal idea of God. Here's a good trick: Get a job as a judge at the Olympics. Then, if some guy
sets a world record, pretend that you didn't see it and go, "Okay, is
everybody ready to start now?" Too bad when I was a kid there wasn't a guy in our class that everybody
called
the "Cricket Boy", because I would have liked to stand up in class and tell
everybody, "You can make fun of the Cricket Boy if you want to, but to
me he's
just like everybody else." Then everybody would leave the Cricket Boy alone,
and I'd invite him over to spend the night at my house, but after about five
minutes of that loud chirping I'd have to kick him out.
Maybe later we could get up a petition to get the Cricket Family run
out of
town. Bye, Cricket Boy. The whole town laughed at my great-grandfather, just because he worked hard
and saved his money. True, working at the hardware store didn't pay much, but
he felt it was better than what everybody else did, which was go up to the
volcano and collect the gold nuggets it shot out every day.
It turned out he was right. After forty years, the volcano petered out.
Everybody left town, and the hardware store went broke. Finally he decided to
collect gold nuggets too, but there weren't many left by then. Plus, he broke
his leg and the doctor's bills were real high. If I had a nickname, I think I would want it to be "Prince of Weasels",
because then I could go up and bite people and they would turn around and go,
"What the-?" And then they would recognize me, and go, "Oh, it's you, the
Prince of Weasels." As the sleek new sports car wound its way up the tortuous road, Henri tought
back to the torture he had received ten minutes ago. "Ah, air conditioning",
he thought as he aimed the vents toward the numerous whip marks on his legs,
chest, and groinal area. I hope, when they die, cartoon characters have to answer for their sins. Marta was watching the football game with me when she said, "You know,
most of
these sports are based on the idea of one group protecting its territory from
invasion by another group."
"Yeah," I said, trying not to laugh.
Girls are funny. When the chairman introduced the guest speaker as a former illegal alien, I
got up from my chair and yelled, "What's the matter, no jobs on Mars?"
When no
one laughed, I was real embarrassed. I don't think people should make
you feel
that way. It's amazing to me that one of the world's most feared diseases would be
carried by one of the world's smallest animals: the real tiny dog. One thing that makes me believe in UFOs is, sometimes I lose stuff. I guess more bad things have been done in the name of progress than any
other.
I myself have been guilty of this. When I was a teen-ager, I stole a car and
drove it out into the desert and set it on fire. When the police showed up, I
just shrugged and said, "Hey, progress."
Boy, did I have a lot to learn. Sometimes, when I drive across the desert in the middle of the night, with no
other cars around, I start imagining: What if there were no civilization out
there? No cities, no factories, no people? And then I think: No people or
factories? Then who made this car? And this highway? And I get so confused I
have to stick my head out the window into the driving rain - unless there's
lightning, because I could get struck on the head by a bolt. The difference between a man and a boy is, a boy wants to grow up to be a
fireman, but a man wants to grow up to be a giant monster fireman. I think the monkeys at the zoo should have to wear sunglasses so they can't
hypnotize you. Sometimes life seems like a dream, especially when I look down and see that I
forgot to put on my pants. Love can sweep you off your feet and carry you along in a way you've never
known before. But the ride always ends, and you end up feeling lonely and
bitter.
Wait. It's not love I'm describing. I'm thinking of a monorail. I bet it was pretty hard to pick up girls if you had the Black Death. Sometimes I wish Marta were more loyal to me. Like the other day. The car
parked next to ours had a real dirty windshield; so I wrote THIS CAR LOOKS
LIKE A FART in the dirt. Later I asked Marta if she thought it was a childish
thing to do. She said, "Well, maybe," Man, whose side is she on, anyway? Sometimes I wonder if I'm sexy enough. When I walk into a singles bar with my
"fashionable" shirt, "fashionable" slacks, and a big new rubber manta-ray
helmet. I can't help wondering: Do women want to talk to me for myself, or do
they just want to get a feel of that nice rubber manta skin? The land that had nourished him and had borne him fruit now turned
against him
and called him a fruit.
Man, I hate land like that. Life, to me, is like a quiet forest pool, one that needs a direct hit from a
big rock half-buried in the ground. You pull and you pull, but you can't get
the rock out of the ground. So you give it a good kick, but you lose your
balance and go skidding down the hill toward the pool. Then out comes a big
Hawaiian man who was screwing his wife beside the pool because they
thought it
was real pretty. He tells you to get out of there, but you start faking it,
like you're talking Hawaiian, and then he gets mad and chases you . . . It's fascinating to think that all around us there's an invisible world we
can't even see. I'm speaking, of course, of the World of the Invisible Scary
Skeletons. Whenever I hear the sparrow chirping, watch the woodpecker chirp, catch a
chirping trout, or listen to the sad howl of the chirp rat, I think: Oh boy!
I'm going insane again. If they have moving sidewalks in the future, when you get on them, I
think you
should have to assume sort of a walking shape so as not to frighten the dogs. He was the kind of man who was not ashamed to show affection. I guess that's
what I hated about him. I think college administrators should encourage students to urinate on walls
and bushes, because then when students from another college come sniffing
around, they'll know this is someone else's territory. The next time I have meat and mashed potatoes, I think I'll put a very large
blob of potatoes on my plate with just a little piece of meat. And if someone
asks me why I didn't get more meat, I'll just say, "Oh, you mean this?" and
pull out a big piece of meat from inside the blob of potatoes, where I've
hidden it.
Good magic trick, huh? I think my new thing will be to try to be a real happy guy. I'll just walk
around being real happy until some jerk says something stupid to me. If you work on a lobster boat, sneaking up behind people and pinching them is
probably a joke that gets old real fast.